
My fellow Americans, I want to speak to you tonight about the troubling events of the past week. As I have said, the incursion of the US Capitol struck at the very heart of our Republic. It angered and appalled millions of Americans across the political spectrum. I want to be very clear, I unequivocally condemn the violence that we saw last week. Violence and vandalism have absolutely no place in our country and no place in our movement.
Making America Great Again has always been about defending the rule of law, supporting the men and women of law enforcement and upholding our nation’s most sacred traditions and values. Mob violence goes against everything I believe in and everything our movement stands for. No true supporter of mine could ever endorse political violence. No true supporter of mine could ever disrespect law enforcement or our great American flag. No true supporter of mine could ever threaten or harass their fellow Americans. If you do any of these things, you are not supporting our movement, you are attacking it and you are attacking our country. We can not tolerate it.
Tragically, over the course of the past year made so difficult because of COVID-19, we have seen political violence spiral out of control. We have seen too many riots, too many mobs, too many acts of intimidation and destruction. It must stop. Whether you are on the right or on the left, a Democrat or a Republican, there is never a justification for violence, no excuses, no exceptions. America is a nation of laws. Those who engaged in the attacks last week will be brought to justice.
Now I am asking everyone who has ever believed in our agenda to be thinking of ways to ease tensions, calm tempers, and help to promote peace in our country. There has been reporting that additional demonstrations are being planned in the coming days, both here in Washington and across the country. I have been briefed by the US Secret Service on the potential threats. Every American deserves to have their voice heard in a respectful and peaceful way. That is your First Amendment Right. But I cannot emphasize that there must be no violence, no law breaking and no vandalism of any kind.
Everyone must follow our laws and obey the instructions of law enforcement. I have directed federal agencies to use all necessary resources to maintain order. In Washington, D.C., We are bringing in thousands of National Guard members to secure the city and ensure that a transition can occur safely and without incident. Like all of you, I was shocked and deeply saddened by the calamity at the Capitol last week. I want to thank the hundreds of millions of incredible American citizens who have responded to this moment with calm, moderation and grace. We will get through this challenge just like we always do.
I also want to say a few words about the unprecedented assault on free speech we have seen in recent days. These are tense and difficult times. The efforts to censor, cancel and blacklist our fellow citizens are wrong and they are dangerous. What is needed now is for us to listen to one another, not to silence one another. All of us can choose by our actions to rise above the ranker and find common ground and shared purpose. We must focus on advancing the interests of the whole nation, delivering the miracle vaccines, defeating the pandemic, rebuilding the economy, protecting our national security and upholding the rule of law.
Today, I am calling on all Americans to overcome the passions of the moment and join together as one American people. Let us choose to move forward united for the good of our families, our communities, and our country. Thank you. God bless you and God bless America.
Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Great honor to be here. We’ve worked long and hard. Please sit down. We’ve worked long and hard to get this done. They said it couldn’t be done, and we got it done, one of the largest infrastructure projects in the history of our country. I’m honored to be here in the Rio Grand Valley with the courageous men and women of customs and border patrol. These people are incredible. They’re really incredible. I’ve gotten to know you very well over the last four years. Many of you are friends from all of the work we did in designing the wall. We got it exactly as you wanted it, everything including your protective plate on top.
I say, “Why did we put that?” And they said, “We need it for extra protection, climb plate,” and we have everything you want. It’s steel, it’s concrete inside the steel, and then it’s rebar, a lot of heavy rebar in side the concrete, and it’s as strong as you’re going to get and strong as you can have, but we gave you a 100% of what you wanted, so now you have no excuses. I didn’t want you to have any excuses. You set records, and we can’t let the next administration even think about taking it down, if you can believe that. I don’t think that will happen. I think when you see what it does and how it’s so important for our country, nobody’s going to be touching it, and you are very proud of it, and you’re proud of the work you did, because we really designed it together.
We’re joined together to celebrate a great achievement, the extraordinarily successful building of the wall on the Southern border. Before we begin, I’d like to say that free speech is under assault like never before. The 25th Amendment is of zero risk to me but will come back to haunt Joe Biden and the Biden Administration. As the expression goes, be careful what you wish for. The impeachment hoax is a continuation of the greatest and most vicious witch hunt in the history of our country and is causing tremendous anger and division and pain far greater than most people will ever understand, which is very dangerous for the USA, especially at this very tender time.
And now, I’d like to briefly address the events of last week. Millions of our citizens watched on Wednesday as a mob stormed the Capitol and trashed the halls of government. As I have consistently said throughout my administration, we believe in respecting America’s history and traditions, not tearing them down. We believe in the rule of law, not in violence or rioting. Because of the pandemic, horrible, horrible, invisible enemy, and despite our tremendous success developing a vaccine years before it was thought even remotely possible … Nobody thought it was going to be possible. They said it would take five years. “Sir, it will take seven years.” All of our scientists were saying, our advisers, “It will seven years, five years, 10 years, maybe.” Well, we did it just like I said we would, and we had it out years and years before they thought it was possible, and we’re now delivering it to states, including your state, where your governor and government are doing a terrific job in getting it administered in Texas.
Florida’s doing great. Some of them are doing great. Some aren’t doing as well, but they have all they can handle, and we get it to them as fast as they need it and even faster. But they’re calling it a medical miracle, and this has been a difficult year and a very difficult election. The pandemic has made it a very, very difficult year for our country and virtually every country all over the world. Now is the time for our nation to heal, and it’s time for peace and for calm. Respect for law enforcement and the great people within law enforcement, so many are here, is the foundation of the MAGA agenda, and we’re a nation of law, and we’re a nation of order. That is why we’re …
… law and we’re a nation of order. That is why we’re here today to talk about what we must do to uphold the rule of law in America and how we must continue to support our law enforcement heroes, which is exactly what you are. Do you feel like a hero? Yeah, I think you do. Right? You do and you are. I want to thank Customs and Border Patrol Commissioner, Mark Morgan, who’s been incredible. Where’s Mark? Mark, stand up, Mark. Great job. Fantastic. Chief Patrol Agent, Brian Hastings. Brian, thank you very much. Great job. He’s so happy. He said, “Sir, this really works.” And most importantly, the brave law enforcement officers who risk their lives every day to protect our families and our country.
I also want to thank a tremendous gentleman, friend of mine, Tom Homan. He’s a great American patriot and he was with us right from the beginning. Right, Tom? You knew exactly … He said, “We need a wall,” when they were saying, “No, no. We need drones, we need drones.” I said, “Why? So you could watch the people pour into our country illegally?” And I want to thank you very much, Tom. What a professional job you’ve done. All of you people, incredible.
Everyone here today is part of an incredible success story. This is a real success story. When I took office, we inherited a broken, dysfunctional, and open border. Everybody was pouring in at will. Working alongside the heroes in this great outdoor space, looking at our wall. We reformed our immigration system and achieved the most secure southern border in US history. It is at a level that it’s never been before. We took on the cartels, the coyotes and the special interests and we restored the rule of law.
For years, politicians ran for office promising to secure the border, only to get elected and to do the absolute exact opposite. They even promised a wall, if you remember. About 10 years ago, they promised a wall, but they couldn’t get it built. It wasn’t easy getting it built. Getting it financed was tough. Getting it built was even tougher. All the different chains of title and all the different things we had to go through, very, very complex and very difficult, but we got it done, but they had it …
Years ago, you remember that better than anybody, right? And they never got it done. They never, ever completed the task. And then, ultimately, the money was sent back to the federal government, spent, but no wall was built. But unlike those who came before me, I kept my promises. And today, we celebrate an extraordinary milestone, the completion of the promised 450 miles of border wall, 450 miles. Nobody realizes how big that is.
I remember when I first came down about a year and a half ago, we’re under construction and I started walking. And I’m looking at the wall and I’m walking and walking. And I’m used to a development project where you could walk a wall; 10 acres, five acres, two acres, one acre. And I realized that’s a long time. That’s a big walk. A lot of the wall you have is incredibly natural. You have the mountains, you have the rives, you have some very powerful water areas, you have some areas that are virtually impossible to get by. So we didn’t need walls everywhere, but where we needed them … because it’s been so successful that we’ve added nearly 300 miles. And that’s currently under construction. This was our original wish, to get these areas done where there was such trouble. And now, we have it. It’s either in construction or in pre-construction, an additional 300 miles.
In every region that we’ve built the wall, illegal crossings and drug smuggling have plummeted, absolutely plummeted. In the Rio Grande Valley, crossings have dropped nearly 80%. In Yuma, Arizona, illegal entries have been slashed by 90%. Nationwide, ICE and border patrol have seized over two million pounds of fentanyl, heroine, meth, and other deadly narcotics, saving thousands and thousands of lives. We’ve arrested nearly 500,000 illegal aliens with criminal records, some with very serious criminal records of the type you don’t want to know about, like murder. We removed nearly 20,000 gang members from the United States, including 4,500 members of MS13, probably the worst gang of them all.
Through the landmark reforms we’ve put into place, we have ended the immigration chaos and reestablished American sovereignty. Our most important reform was ending catch and release. Not easy to do. You’re dealing with Congress. It’s very, very difficult, which is the functional equivalent of open borders, but even worse. It’s catch and release them. It means release into our country, not into another country. This policy was exploited by vicious criminal organizations who understood the laws better than our people understood them for years to spread misery and suffering and drugs all across the hemisphere.
Now, instead of catch and release, we have detain and remove. It’s called detain and remove. Doesn’t that sound better? One of the biggest loopholes we closed was asylum fraud. Under the old, broken system, if you merely requested asylum, you were released into the country, the most ridiculous thing anyone’s ever seen. And we were taking in some people that you didn’t want to have in your country. We instituted a series of historic policy changes to shut down asylum fraud and that’s what we did.
This includes the groundbreaking agreement with Mexico, known as the Migrant Protection Protocols or MPP. Under this agreement, if an illegal alien requests asylum, they have to wait in Mexico until their case is heard. They used to wait here. And when they were waiting, they would say, “Bye-bye,” and they’d disappear somewhere into our country. And essentially, we’d never find them again. We’d never see them again. This one measure, alone, ended a humanitarian crisis and saved countless lives and especially, I have to say, lives from crime.
I want to thank the great President of Mexico. He is a great gentleman, a friend of mine, President Obrador. He is a man who really knows what’s happening and he loves his country and he also loves the United States, but I want to thank for his friendship and his professional working relationship. We actually had 27,000 Mexican soldiers guarding our borders over the last two years. Nobody thought that was possible. And they made it very, very difficult and that’s why the numbers were able to plunge, even during the construction of the wall.
And by the way, one of the big elements of the wall that make it so successful is we can have far fewer people working now. They can be working on other things, other things related to crime and drug prevention and a lot of other elements they’re working on because we saved massive numbers of people. And included here, we have the most sophisticated camera systems and most sophisticated electronic systems anywhere in the world. We implemented three historic agreements with the Northern Triangle. That’s Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. Under these critical asylum cooperation agreements, the burden of illegal immigration is now shared all across the region. Now, when …
… Immigration is now shared all across the region. Now, when an illegal immigrant is arrested at our border, they can be sent to a neighboring country instead of into a US community. Prior to my getting here, countries wouldn’t accept them. They would say, “No, no, no.” I said, “Well, you got to take them.” First month, I’ll never forget these gentlemen right here came to me. They said, “They won’t take them back.” They came, they may be murderers, they may be cartel heads, they may be some really vicious people. The countries didn’t want them back. And I stopped all payments to those countries. I stopped everything going to those countries. And after it was stopped for about a month, you remember? After it was stopped for about a month, they called, they said, “We’d love to have them back.” And I never gave him as much money as they were getting by the way, but they got some.
It was amazing. And you people know better than anyone, they wouldn’t take them back. Would have planes flying over, loaded up with people that we didn’t want here. And then say, “Don’t ever even think about landing that plane.” And they’d take them by boat and they’d take them by bus and they wouldn’t let them into their countries. And all of a sudden, they say, “Welcome back. We love having you.” So it was a great thing and now they do take them back. And the relationship with those countries, the triangle, the relationship is a much better one than it was before. In addition to our agreements with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, we have systematically reformed the regulatory code to return asylum to its original legal meaning and purpose, not a free ticket for entry. A recent comprehensive report by the Department of Homeland Security and Justice show how effective our reforms have been and how disastrous their removal would be.
It would be a disaster for our country. I know they’re thinking about removing them. I hope they don’t do that. I hope they don’t do that. It’ll be an absolute travesty for our country. The report conclusively proves once and for all that aliens released at the border remain at large in the country and do not return home. They won’t go home. And you rarely find them. It’s very tough to find them. So we have aliens released in our country, many of whom are serious criminals, and we’ve stopped that. Don’t ever start that process again. By contrast, under our policies, 98% of aliens that remain in DHS custody are removed. Simply put, if you entered the United States illegally, you are apprehended and immediately, safely removed from our country. Without this core principle, there is no border. There is no law. There is no water. My administration also instituted vital public health measures on the border in response to the China virus under Title 42 of the US code, illegal immigrants are being promptly removed to protect the health of border agents, other migrants in local communities, and the public at large.
Removing these protections would invite a public health catastrophe of epic proportions. As you probably know, in Tijuana, various parts of Mexico, the COVID has got about 24 names. I can call it from COVID to China virus. I can call it the plague, I call it the China plague, a lot of different names. But we always call it the invisible enemy. But the invisible enemy has been very tough on Mexico and we have areas along the border where we’re in great shape, because right there, because of that, that we’re in great shape. But on the other side in Mexico, they’re suffering greatly with the virus. It’s been incredible what we’ve achieved, and we didn’t do the wall because of COVID. We did the wall because of security and drugs and other things, but it turned out that in the middle of it all, along came this horrible plague.
We inherited a dangerously lawless border. The people that work here are unbelievably brave. I’ve seen what they have to endure, what they have to go through. They’re tough, they’re strong, and they’re great patriots, great Americans. We fixed it and we secured it. We empowered our wonderful ICE and border patrol to fulfill their oaths and they became sworn officers of the law and they love their job. It’s a tough job. It’s a nasty job. They’re not paid what they should be paid, to be honest, but we got you up. We got you up. But these are incredibly talented people. They could probably do a lot better in terms of economics than they do here, but they love what they do and they love their country. We also put into place vital measures to protect American workers, keep out terrorists, and stop the abuse of our welfare system.
Where they’d come up, go in our welfare system, and live for years on American welfare without ever having a job. We also have, and we had, but we have them all the time, we have terrorists from the Middle East coming into our country through the southern border. That was before what you see right here, because it was easier to come into our country through the Southern border than it was through airports or any other means. So they’d land in South America and they’d work their way up and they’d come into our country. And these are not people from the countries that you would suspect. These are people from some very seriously dangerous places in the Middle East. And the numbers are far greater than anybody would understand, really far greater. Removing any of these would hamstring our workers, endanger our country, and cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars a year. No matter our party, we should all agree on the need to protect our workers, our families, and our citizens of all backgrounds, no matter who they are.
In particular, if our border security measures are reversed, it will trigger a tidal wave of illegal immigration, a wave like you’ve never seen before. And I can tell you that already waves are starting to come up from 2000 and 1000 and 500 miles away. We see what’s coming, and they’re coming because they think that it’s gravy train at the end. It’s going to be a gravy train. Change the name from the caravans, which I think we came up with, to the gravy train, because that’s what they’re looking for. Looking for the gravy. This will be an unmitigated calamity for national security, public safety, and public health. It would destroy millions and millions of jobs and claim thousands of innocent lives. The policies I put into place are uniformly and strongly supported by the men and women of ICE and border patrol.
We worked on them together, just like we did on the wall. We worked on the policies together because nobody knows this whole world better than the incredible people right in front of me. To terminate those policies is knowingly to put America in really serious danger and to override the great career experts that have worked so hard, those from DHS. At this very moment, smugglers and coyotes are preparing to surge the border if our policies are loosened or removed. They’re literally waiting, big, big groups of people. Some of them very unsavory, I might add. This is an entirely preventable tragedy, it’s waiting to happen. The safety of our nation must come before politics, we have many disagreements in the country. But we should all agree, the-
… many disagreements in the country, but we should all agree the urgent need to secure our borders, protect our homeland, and allow law enforcement to fulfill its mission without political interference. ICE and border patrol agents swore a sacred oath to uphold the law, and no political appointees should ever order them to violate that oath. These are real experts. They really get it. And I’ll tell you who else gets it. The Hispanic population of our country gets it because not only did I win Texas in historic numbers, but I won border towns, which are largely Hispanic. And people were amazed to see that. And the numbers, they say, were, Governor of Texas called, great guy, great governor, called. He said, “You had numbers that nobody’s had since reconstruction.” Reconstruction means Civil War. And a largely Hispanic. They understand it better than anybody. And they want law enforcement to help them, help them live safe lives.
The laws that Congress passed must be upheld. To the men and women of ICE, customs, and border protection, and all across DHS, law enforcement in general, you have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation. You have no idea how much our nation loves you and respects you. I don’t think you do have an idea, but it’s true. I only hope and pray that your voice will be heard, honored, heeded, and respected long into the future. God bless you, God bless law enforcement, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great job.
The media will not show the magnitude of this crowd. Even I, when I turned on today, I looked, and I saw thousands of people here, but you don’t see hundreds of thousands of people behind you because they don’t want to show that. We have hundreds of thousands of people here, and I just want them to be recognized by the fake news media. Turn your cameras please and show what’s really happening out here because these people are not going to take it any longer. They’re not going to take it any longer. Go ahead. Turn your cameras, please. Would you show? They came from all over the world, actually, but they came from all over our country. I just really want to see what they do. I just want to see how they covered. I’ve never seen anything like it. But it would be really great if we could be covered fairly by the media. The media is the biggest problem we have as far as I’m concerned, single biggest problem, the fake news and the big tech. Big tech is now coming into their own. We beat them four years ago. We surprised them. We took them by surprise and this year, they rigged an election. They rigged it like they’ve never rigged an election before. By the way, last night, they didn’t do a bad job either, if you notice. I’m honest. I just, again, I want to thank you. It’s just a great honor to have this kind of crowd and to be before you. Hundreds of thousands of American patriots are committed to the honesty of our elections and the integrity of our glorious Republic. All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened radical left Democrats, which is what they’re doing and stolen by the fake news media. That’s what they’ve done and what they’re doing. We will never give up. We will never concede, it doesn’t happen. You don’t concede when there’s theft involved.
Our country has had enough. We will not take it anymore and that’s what this is all about. To use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with, we will stop the steal. Today I will lay out just some of the evidence proving that we won this election, and we won it by a landslide. This was not a close election. I say sometimes jokingly, but there’s no joke about it, I’ve been in two elections. I won them both and the second one, I won much bigger than the first. Almost 75 million people voted for our campaign, the most of any incumbent president by far in the history of our country, 12 million more people than four years ago. I was told by the real pollsters, we do have real pollsters. They know that we were going to do well, and we were going to win. What I was told, if I went from 63 million, which we had four years ago to 66 million, there was no chance of losing. Well, we didn’t go to 66. We went to 75 million and they say we lost. We didn’t lose.
By the way, does anybody believe that Joe had 80 million votes? Does anybody believe that? He had 80 million computer votes. It’s a disgrace. There’s never been anything like that. You could take third world countries. Just take a look, take third world countries. Their elections are more honest than what we’ve been going through in this country. It’s a disgrace. It’s a disgrace. Even when you look at last night, they’re all running around like chickens with their heads cut off with boxes. Nobody knows what the hell is going on. There’s never been anything like this. We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen.
Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!
Thank you. I’d love to have, if those tens of thousands of people would be allowed, the military, the secret service, and we want to thank you, and the police law enforcement. Great. You’re doing a great job, but I’d love it if they could be allowed to come up here with us. Is that possible? Can you just let them come up, please? Rudy, you did a great job. He’s got guts. You know what? He’s got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican party. He’s got guts, he fights. He fights, and I’ll tell you. Thank you very much, John. Fantastic job. I watched. That’s a tough act to follow, those two. John is one of the most brilliant lawyers in the country, and he looked at this and he said, ” What an absolute disgrace, that this could be happening to our constitution.” He looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing.
I hope so. I hope so because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election. All he has to do. This is from the number one or certainly one of the top constitutional lawyers in our country. He has the absolute right to do it. We’re supposed to protect our country, support our country, support our constitution, and protect our constitution. States want to revote. The States got defrauded. They were given false information. They voted on it. Now they want to recertify. They want it back. All Vice-President Pence has to do is send it back to the States to recertify, and we become president, and you are the happiest people.
I just spoke to Mike. I said, “Mike, that doesn’t take courage. What takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage,” and then we’re stuck with a president who lost the election by a lot, and we have to live with that for four more years. We’re just not going to let that happen. Many of you have traveled from all across the nation to be here, and I want to thank you for the extraordinary love. That’s what it is. There’s never been a movement like this ever, ever for the extraordinary love for this amazing country and this amazing movement. Thank you.
We love Trump! We love Trump! We love Trump!
By the way, this goes all the way back past the Washington monument. Do you believe this? Look at this. Unfortunately, they gave the press the prime seats. I can’t stand that. No, but you look at that behind. I wish they’d flip those cameras and look behind you. That is the most amazing sight. When they make a mistake, you get to see it on television. Amazing, amazing, all the way back. Don’t worry. We will not take the name off the Washington monument. We will not. Cancel culture. They wanted to get rid of the Jefferson Memorial, either take it down or just put somebody else in there. I don’t think that’s going to happen. It damn well better not. Although with this administration, if this happens, it could happen. You’ll see some really bad things happen.
They’ll knock out Lincoln too, by the way. They’ve been taking his statue down, but then we signed a little law. You hurt our monuments, you hurt our heroes, you go to jail for 10 years and everything stopped. Did you notice that? It stopped. It all stopped. They could use Rudy back in New York City. Rudy, they could use you. Your city is going to hell. They want Rudy Giuliani back in New York. We’ll get a little younger version of Rudy. Is that okay, Rudy?
We’re gathered together in the heart of our nation’s Capitol for one very, very basic and simple reason, to save our democracy. Most candidates on election evening, and of course this thing goes on so long, they still don’t have any idea what the votes are. We still have congressional seats under review. They have no idea. They’ve totally lost control. They’ve used the pandemic as a way of defrauding the people in a proper election. But when you see this and when you see what’s happening, number one, they all say, “Sir, we’ll never let it happen again.” I said, “That’s good, but what about eight weeks ago?” They try and get you to go. They say, “Sir, in four years, you’re guaranteed.” I said, “I’m not interested right now. Do me a favor, go back eight weeks. I want to go back eight weeks. Let’s go back eight week.” We want to go back, and we want to get this right because we’re going to have somebody in there that should not be in there and our country will be destroyed, and we’re not going to stand for that.
For years, Democrats have gotten away with election fraud and weak Republicans, and that’s what they are. There’s so many weak Republicans. We have great ones, Jim Jordan, and some of these guys. They’re out there fighting the House. Guys are fighting, but it’s incredible. Many of the Republicans, I helped them get in. I helped them get elected. I helped Mitch get elected. I could name 24 of them, let’s say. I won’t bore you with it, and then all of a sudden you have something like this. It’s like, “Gee, maybe I’ll talk to the president sometime later.” No, it’s amazing. The weak Republicans, they’re pathetic Republicans and that’s what happens. If this happened to the Democrats, there’d be hell all over the country going on. There’d be hell all over the country. But just remember this. You’re stronger, you’re smarter. You’ve got more going than anybody, and they try and demean everybody having to do with us, and you’re the real people. You’re the people that built this nation. You’re not the people that tore down our nation.
The weak Republicans, and that’s it. I really believe it. I think I’m going to use the term, the weak Republicans. You got a lot of them, and you got a lot of great ones, but you got a lot of weak ones. They’ve turned a blind eye even as Democrats enacted policies that chipped away our jobs, weakened our military, threw open our borders and put America last. Did you see the other day where Joe Biden said, “I want to get rid of the America first policy.” What’s that all about, get rid of …? How do you say, “I want to get rid of America first?” Even if you’re going to do it, don’t talk about it. Unbelievable, what we have to go through, what we have to go through and you have to get your people to fight. If they don’t fight, we have to primary the hell out of the ones that don’t fight. You primary them. We’re going to let you know who they are. I can already tell you, frankly.
But this year using the pretext of the China virus and the scam of mail-in ballots, Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft. There’s never been anything like this. It’s a pure theft in American history, everybody knows it. That election, our election was over at 10:00 in the evening. We’re leading Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia by hundreds of thousands of votes, and then late in the evening or early in the morning, boom, these explosions of and bullshit, and all of a sudden. All of a sudden it started to happen.
[inaudible 00:15:25]
Don’t forget when Romney got beat. Romney. I wonder if he enjoyed his flight in last night? But when Romney got beaten, he stands up like you’re more typical. Well, I’d like to congratulate the victor, the victor. Who was the victor, Mitt? I’d like to congratulate. They don’t go and look at the facts. Now I don’t know. He got slaughtered probably, maybe it was okay. Maybe it was that’s what happened. But we look at the facts and our lecture was so corrupt that in the history of this country, we’ve never seen anything like it. You can go all the way back. America is blessed with elections all over the world. They talk about our elections. You know what the world says about us now? They said we don’t have free and fair elections and you know what else? We don’t have a free and fair press.
Our media is not free. It’s not fair. It suppresses thought. It suppresses speech, and it’s become the enemy of the people. It’s become the enemy of the people. It’s the biggest problem we have in this country. No third world countries would even attempt to do what we caught them doing and you’ll hear about that in just a few minutes. Republicans are constantly fighting like a boxer with his hands tied behind his back. It’s like a boxer, and we want to be so nice. We want to be so respectful of everybody, including bad people. We’re going to have to fight much harder and Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us. If he doesn’t, that will be a sad day for our country because you’re sworn to uphold our constitution. Now it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy. After this, we’re going to walk down and I’ll be there with you. We’re going to walk down. We’re going to walk down any one you want, but I think right here. We’re going walk down to the Capitol, and we’re going to cheer on our brave senators, and congressmen and women. We’re probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them because you’ll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength, and you have to be strong.
We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated. I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard. Today we will see whether Republicans stand strong for integrity of our elections, but whether or not they stand strong for our country, our country. Our country has been under siege for a long time, far longer than this four-year period. We’ve set it on a much straighter course, a much … I thought four more years. I thought it would be easy. We created-
Four more years, I thought it would be easy. We created the greatest economy in history. We rebuilt our military. We get you the biggest tax cuts in history. We got you the biggest regulation cuts. There’s no President, whether it’s four years, eight years, or in one case more, got anywhere near the regulation cuts. It used to take 20 years to get a highway approved. now we’re down to two. I want to get it down to one, but we’re down to two. And it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons, but we got it down the safety. We created Space Force. Look at what we did. Our military has been totally rebuilt. So we create Space Force, which by in of itself is a major achievement for an administration. And with us, it’s one of so many different things.
Right to try. Everybody know about right to try. We did things that nobody ever thought possible. We took care of our vets. Our vets, the VA now has the highest rating, 91%, the highest rating that it’s had from the beginning, 91% approval rating. Always you watch the VA, when it was on television. Every night people living in a horrible, horrible manner. We got that done. We got accountability done. We got it so that now in the VA, you don’t have to wait for four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, four months to see a doctor. If you can’t get a doctor, you go outside you get the doctor, you have them taken care of. And we pay the doctor. And we’ve not only made life wonderful for so many people, we’ve saved tremendous amounts of money, far secondarily, but we’ve saved a lot of money.
And now we have the right to fire bad people in the VA. We had 9000 people that treated our veterans horribly. In primetime, they would not have treated our veterans badly. But they treated our veterans horribly. And we have what’s called the VA Accountability Act. And the accountability says if we see somebody in there that doesn’t treat our vets well, or they steal, they rob, they do things badly. We say, “Joe, you’re fired. Get out of here.” Before you couldn’t do that. You couldn’t do that before.
So we’ve taken care of things. We’ve done things like nobody’s ever thought possible. And that’s part of the reason that many people don’t like us, because we’ve done too much, but we’ve done it quickly. And we were going to sit home and watch a big victory. And everybody had us down for a victory. It was going to be great. And now we’re out here fighting. I said to somebody, I was going to take a few days and relax after our big electoral victory. Ten o’clock, it was over. But I was going to take a few days.
And I can say this, since our election, I believe, which was a catastrophe when I watch and even these guys knew what happened, they know what happened. They’re saying, “Wow, Pennsylvania’s insurmountable. Wow, Wisconsin, look at the big leads we had.” Even though the press said we were going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points. Even though the press said Ohio is going to be close, we set a record. Florida’s going to be close, we set a record. Texas is going to be close. Texas is going to be close, we set a record. And we set a record with Hispanic, with the Black community. We set a record with everybody.
Today, we see a very important event though, because right over there, right there, we see the event going to take place. And I’m going to be watching, because history is going to be made. We’re going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity, they’ll be ashamed. And you know what? If they do the wrong thing, we should never ever forget that they did. Never forget. We should never ever forget. With only three of the seven states in question, we win the presidency of the United States.
And by the way, it’s much more important today than it was 24 hours ago. Because I spoke to David Perdue, what a great person, and Kelly Loeffler, two great people, but it was a setup. And I said, “We have no back line anymore.” The only back line, the only line of demarcation, the only line that we have is the veto of the president of the United States. So this is now what we’re doing, a far more important election than it was two days ago.
I want to thank the more than 140 members of the House. Those are warriors. They’re over there working like you’ve never seen before, studying, talking, actually going all the way back, studying the roots of the Constitution, because they know we have the right to send a bad vote that was illegally got, they gave these people bad things to vote for and they voted, because what did they know? And then when they found out a few weeks later… Again, it took them four years to devise history. And the only unhappy person in the United States, single most unhappy, is Hillary Clinton because she said, “Why didn’t you do this for me four years ago? Why didn’t you do this for me four years ago? Change the votes! 10,000 in Michigan. You could have changed the whole thing!” But she’s not too happy. You notice you don’t see her anymore. What happened? Where is Hillary? Where is she?
But I want to thank all of those congressmen and women. I also want to thank our 13 most courageous members of the US Senate, Senator Ted Cruz, Senator Ron Johnson, Senator Shadowless, Kelly Loeffler. And Kelly Loeffler, I’ll tell you, she’s been so great. She works so hard. So let’s give her and David a little special head, because it was rigged against them. Let’s give her and David. Kelly Loeffler, David Perdue. They fought a good race. They never had a shot. That equipment should never have been allowed to be used, and I was telling these people don’t let them use this stuff. Marsha Blackburn, terrific person. Mike Braun, Indiana. Disinvested, great guy. Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Cynthia Lummis. Tommy Tuberville, to the coach. And Roger Marshall. We want to thank them, senators that stepped up, we want to thank them.
I actually think though it takes, again, more courage not to step up. And I think a lot of those people are going to find that out, and you better start looking at your leadership because the leadership has led you down the tubes. “We don’t want to give $2000 to people. We want to give them $600.” Oh, great. How does that play politically? Pretty good? And this has nothing to do with politics. But how does it play politically? China destroyed these people. We didn’t destroy. China destroyed them, totally destroyed them. We want to give them $600, and they just wouldn’t change. I said, “Give them $2000. We’ll pay it back. We’ll pay it back fast. You already owe 26 trillion. Give them a couple of bucks. Let them live. Give them a couple of bucks!”
And some of the people here disagree with me on that. But I just say, look, you got to let people live. And how does that play though? Okay, number one, it’s the right thing to do. But how does that play politically? I think it’s the primary reason, one of the primary reasons, the other was just pure cheating. That was the super primary reason. But you can’t do that. You got to use your head.
As you know the media is constantly asserted the outrageous lie that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. You ever see these people? “While there is no evidence of fraud…” Oh, really? Well, I’m going to read you pages. I hope you don’t get bored listening to it. Promise? Don’t get bored listening to it, all those hundreds of thousands of people back there. Move them up, please. Yeah. All these people don’t get bored. Don’t get angry at me because you’re going to get bored because it’s so much. The American people do not believe the corrupt fake news anymore. They have ruined their reputation.
But it used to be that they’d argue with me, I’d fight. So I’d fight, they’d fight. I’d fight, they’d fight. Boop-boop. You’d believe me, you’d believe them. Somebody comes out. They had their point of view, I had my point of view. But you’d have an argument. Now what they do is they go silent. It’s called suppression. And that’s what happens in a communist country. That’s what they do. They suppress. You don’t fight with them anymore, unless it’s a bad. They have a little bad story about me, they’ll make it 10 times worse and it’s a major headline. But Hunter Biden, they don’t talk about him. What happened to Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? They don’t talk about him.
Now watch all the sets will go off. Well, they can’t do that because they get good ratings. The ratings are too good. Now where is Hunter? And how come Joe was allowed to give a billion dollars of money to get rid of the prosecutor in Ukraine? How does that happen? I’d ask you that question. How does that happen? Can you imagine if I said that? If I said that it would be a whole different ball game. And how come Hunter gets three and a half million dollars from the Mayor of Moscow’s wife, and gets hundreds of thousands of dollars to sit on an energy board even though he admits he has no knowledge of energy, and millions of dollars up front, and how come they go into China and they leave with billions of dollars to manage? “Have you managed money before?” “No, I haven’t.” “Oh, that’s good. Here’s about 3 billion.”
No, they don’t talk about that. No, we have a corrupt media. They’ve gone silent. They’ve gone dead. I now realize how good it was if you go back 10 years. I realized how good, even though I didn’t necessarily love him, I realized how good it was like a cleansing motion. But we don’t have that anymore. We don’t have a fair media anymore. It’s suppression and you have to be very careful with that. And they’ve lost all credibility in this country. We will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that we’ve been forced to believe over the past several weeks. We’ve amassed overwhelming evidence about a fake election. This is the presidential election. Last night was a little bit better because of the fact that we had a lot of eyes watching one specific state, but they cheated like hell anyway.
You have one of the dumbest governors in the United States. And when I endorsed him, I didn’t know this guy. At the request of David Perdue. He said, “A friend of mine is running for Governor, what’s his name.” And you know the rest. He was in fourth place, fifth place. I don’t know. He was way… He was doing poorly. I endorsed him. He went like a rocket ship and he won. And then I had to beat Stacey Abrams with this guy, Brian Kemp. I had to beat Stacey Abrams and I had to beat Oprah, used to be a friend of mine. I was on her last show. Her last week she picked the five outstanding people. I don’t think she thinks that anymore. Once I ran for president, I didn’t notice there were too many calls coming in from Oprah. Believe it or not, she used to like me, but I was one of the five outstanding people.
And I had a campaign against Michelle Obama and Barack Hussein Obama against Stacey. And I had Brian Kemp, he weighs 130 pounds. He said he played offensive line in football. I’m trying to figure that. I’m still trying to figure that out. He said that the other night, “I was an offensive lineman.” I’m saying, “Really? That must’ve been a really small team.” But I look at that and I look at what’s happened, and he turned out to be a disaster. This stuff happens.
Look, I’m not happy with the Supreme Court. They love to rule against me. I picked three people. I fought like hell for them, one in particular I fought. They all said, “Sir, cut him loose. He’s killing us.” The senators, very loyal senators. They’re very loyal people. “Sir, cut him loose. He’s killing us, sir. Cut him loose, sir.” I must’ve gotten half of the senators. I said, “No, I can’t do that. It’s unfair to him. And it’s unfair to the family. He didn’t do anything wrong. They’re made up stories.” They were all made up stories. He didn’t do anything wrong. “Cut him loose, sir.” I said, “No, I won’t do that.” We got him through. And you know what? They couldn’t give a damn. They couldn’t give a damn. Let them rule the right way, but it almost seems that they’re all going out of their way to hurt all of us, and to hurt our country. To hurt our country.
I read a story in one of the newspapers recently how I control the three Supreme Court justices. I control them. They’re puppets. I read it about Bill Barr, that he’s my personal attorney. That he’ll do anything for me. And I said, “It really is genius,” because what they do is that, and it makes it really impossible for them to ever give you a victory, because all of a sudden Bill Barr changed, if you hadn’t noticed. I like Bill Barr, but he changed, because he didn’t want to be considered my personal attorney. And the Supreme Court, they rule against me so much. You know why? Because the story is I haven’t spoken to any of them, any of them, since virtually they got in. But the story is that they’re my puppet. That they’re puppets. And now that the only way they can get out of that, because they hate that, it’s not good on the social circuit. And the only way they get out is to rule against Trump. So let’s rule against Trump, and they do that. So I want to congratulate them.
But it shows you the media’s genius. In fact, probably, if I was the media, I’d do it the same way. I hate to say it. But we got to get them straightened out. Today, for the sake of our democracy, for the sake of our Constitution, and for the sake of our children, we lay out the case for the entire world to hear. You want to hear it?
Yes!
In every single swing state, local officials, state officials, almost all Democrats made illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated approvals by the state legislatures, that these changes paved the way for fraud on a scale never seen before. And I think we’d go a long way outside of our country when I say that.
So just in a nutshell, you can’t make a change on voting for a federal election unless the state legislature approves it. No judge can do it. Nobody can do it, only a legislature. So as an example in Pennsylvania or whatever, you have a Republican legislature, you have a Democrat mayor, and you have a lot of Democrats all over the place. They go to the legislature, the legislature laughs at them. Says, “We’re not going to do that.” They say, “Thank you very much.” And they go and make the changes themselves. They do it anyway. And that’s totally illegal. That’s totally illegal. You can’t do that.
In Pennsylvania, the Democrat Secretary of State and the Democrat State Supreme Court justices illegally abolished the signature verification requirements just 11 days prior to the election. So think of what they did. No longer is there signature verification. Oh, that’s okay. We want voter ID by the way. But no longer is their signature verification, 11 days before the election! They say, “We don’t want it.” You know why they don’t want it? Because they want to cheat. That’s the only reason. Who would even think of that? We don’t want to verify a signature? There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania. Now think of this. You had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters. That means you had 200… Where did they come from? You know where they came from? Somebody’s imagination. Whatever they needed. So in Pennsylvania you had 205,000 more votes than you had voters! And it’s the number is actually much greater than that now. That was as of a week ago. And this is a mathematical impossibility, unless you want to say it’s a total fraud. So Pennsylvania was defrauded.
Over 8000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to the election. Think of that. Dead people! Lots of dead people, thousands. And some dead people actually requested an application. That bothers me even more. Not only are they voting, they want an application to vote. One of them was 29 years ago died. It’s incredible.
Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out-of-state voters. So these are voters that don’t live in the state. And by the way, these numbers are what they call outcome determinative. Meaning these numbers far surpass… I lost by a very little bit. These numbers are massive. Massive. More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted, even though they were received after Election Day. In other words, “They were received after Election Day, let’s count them anyway!” And what they did in many cases is they did fraud. They took the date and they moved it back, so that it no longer is after Election Day. And more than 60,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were reported received back. They got back before they were ever supposedly mailed out. In other words, you got the ballot back before you mailed it!
… they were supposedly mailed out, in other words, you got the ballot back before you mailed it, which is also logically and logistically impossible. Think of that one. You got the ballot back. Let’s send the ballots. Oh, they’ve already been sent. But we got the ballot back before they were sent. I don’t think that’s too good.
Twenty-five thousand ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents, all in a single giant batch, not legal. Indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting operation. You’re not allowed to do it. It’s against the law. The day before the election, the State of Pennsylvania reported the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out. Yet this number was suddenly and drastically increased by 400,000 people. It was increased. Nobody knows where it came from by 400,000 ballots. One day after the election, it remains totally unexplained. They said, “Well, we can’t figure that.” Now that’s many, many times what it would take to overthrow the state. Just that one element. 400,000 ballots appeared from nowhere, right after the election.
By the way, Pennsylvania has now seen all of this. They didn’t know because it was so quick. They had a vote, they voted, but now they see all this stuff. It’s all come to light. Doesn’t happen that fast. And they want to re certify their votes. They want to re certify. But the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back.
Mike Pence has to agree to send it back. And many people in Congress want it sent back, and take of what you’re doing. Let’s say you don’t do it. Somebody says, “Well, we have to obey the constitution.” And you are, because you’re protecting our country and you’re protecting the constitution, so you are. But think of what happens. Let’s say they’re stiffs and they’re stupid people. And they say, “Well, we really have no choice.” Even though Pennsylvania and other states want to redo their votes, they want to see the numbers. They already have the numbers. Go very quickly and they want to redo their legislature because many of these votes were taken as I said, because it wasn’t approved by their legislature. That in itself is illegal and then you have the scam and that’s all of the things that we’re talking about. But think of this: if you don’t do that, that means you will have a president of the United States for four years, with his wonderful son.
You will have a president who lost all of these states, or you will have a president to put it another way, who was voted on by a bunch of stupid people who lost all of these things. You will have an illegitimate president, that’s what you’ll have. And we can’t let that happen. These are the facts that you won’t hear from the fake news media. It’s all part of the suppression effort. They don’t want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it. In fact, when I started talking about that, I guarantee you a lot of the television sets and a lot of those cameras went off and that’s how a lot of cameras back there. But a lot of them went off, but these are the things you don’t hear about. You don’t hear what you just heard. And I’m going to go over a few more states. But you don’t hear it by the people who want to deceive you and demoralize you and control you, big tech, media.
Just like the suppression polls that said, we’re going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points, well we won Wisconsin. They don’t have it that way because they lose just by a little sliver. But they had me down the day before Washington Post, ABC poll, down 17 points. I called up a real pollster. I said, “What is that?” “Sir, that’s called a suppression poll. I think you’re going to win Wisconsin, sir.” I said, “But why do they make it four or five points?” “Because then people vote. But when you’re down 17, they say, ‘Hey, I’m not going to waste my time. I love the president, but there’s no way.'” Despite that, we won Wisconsin, you’ll see. But that’s called suppression because a lot of people, when they see that, it’s very interesting. This pollster said, “Sir, if you’re down three, four or five people vote. When you go down 17, they say, ‘Let’s save, let’s go and have dinner, and let’s watch the presidential defeat tonight on television darling.'”
And just like the radical left tries to blacklist you on social media, every time I put out a tweet, even if it’s totally correct, totally correct. I get a flag. I get a flag. And they also don’t let you get out. On Twitter, it’s very hard to come on to my account. It’s very hard to get out a message. They don’t let the message get out nearly like they should, but I’ve had many people say, “I can’t get on your Twitter.” I don’t care about Twitter. Twitter is bad news. They’re all bad news. But you know what? If you want to get out of message. And if you want to go through big tech, social media, they are really, if you’re a conservative, if you’re a Republican, if you have a big voice, I guess they call it shadow ban. Shadow ban. They shadow ban you and it should be illegal. I’ve been telling these Republicans get rid of Section 230.
And for some reason, Mitch and the group, they don’t want to put it in there. And they don’t realize that that’s going to be the end of the Republican party as we know it, but it’s never going to be the end of us, never. Let them get out. Let the weak ones get out. This is a time for strength. They also want to indoctrinate your children in school by teaching them things that aren’t so. They want to indoctrinate your children. It’s all part of the comprehensive assault on our democracy and the American people to finally standing up and saying, “No.” This crowd is again a testament to it. I did no advertising. I did nothing. You do have some groups that are big supporters. I want to thank that Amy and everybody, we have some incredible supporters, incredible, but we didn’t do anything. This just happened.
Two months ago, we had a massive crowd come down to Washington. I said, “What are they there for.” “Sir, they’re there for you.” We have nothing to do with it. These groups, they’re forming all over the United States. And we got to remember, in a year from now, you’re going to start working on Congress. And we got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world, we got to get rid of them. We got to get rid of them. She never wants a soldier brought home. I’ve brought a lot of our soldiers home. I don’t know, some like it. They’re in countries that nobody even knows the name. Nobody knows where they are. They’re dying. They’re great, but they’re dying. They’re losing their arms, their legs, their face. I brought them back home, largely back home, Afghanistan, Iraq. Remember I used to say in the old days, “Don’t go into Iraq. But if you go in, keep the oil.” We didn’t keep the oil. So stupid. So stupid, these people. And Iraq has billions and billions of dollars now in the bank. And what did we do? We get nothing. We never get. But we do actually, we kept the oil here. We did good. We got rid of the ISIS caliphate. We got rid of plenty of different things that everybody knows and the rebuilding of our military in three years, people said it couldn’t be done. And it was all made in the USA, all made in the USA. Best equipment in the world. In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat run cities deployed more than 500 illegal unmanned, unsecured drop boxes, which collected a minimum of 91,000 unlawful votes. It was razor thin the loss. This one thing alone is much more than we would need, but there are many things.
They have these lockboxes and they pick them up and they disappear for two days. People would say, “Where’s that box?” They disappeared. Nobody even knew where the hell it was. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were counted in Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application. So they had a vote, but they had no application. And that’s illegal in Wisconsin. Meaning those votes were blatantly done in opposition to state law. And they came 100% from Democrat areas, such as Milwaukee and Madison, 100%. In Madison, 17,000 votes were deposited in so-called human drop boxes. You know what that is, right? Where operatives stuff thousands of unsecured ballots into duffel bags on park benches across the city in complete defiance of cease and desist letters from state legislature. The state legislature said, “Don’t do it.” They’re the only ones that could approve it. They gave tens of thousands of votes.
They came in in duffel bags. Where the hell did they come from? According to eyewitness testimony, postal service workers in Wisconsin were also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. The margin of difference in Wisconsin was less than 20,000 votes. Each one of these things alone wins us the state. Great state, we love the state, we won the state. In Georgia, your secretary of state, I can’t believe this guy’s a Republican. He loves recording telephone conversations. I thought it was a great conversation personally, so did a lot of other … people love that conversation, because it says what’s going on. These people are crooked. They’re 100% in my opinion, one of the most corrupt. Between your governor and your secretary of state. And now you have it again last night, just take a look at what happened, what a mess and the Democrat party operatives entered into an illegal and unconstitutional settlement agreement that drastically weakened signature verification and other election security procedures.
Stacey Abrams, she took them to lunch and I beat her two years ago with a bad candidate, Brian Kemp. But the Democrats, took the Republicans to lunch because the secretary of state had no clue what the hell was happening, unless he did have a clue. That’s interesting. Maybe he was with the other side, but we’ve been trying to get verifications of signatures in Fulton County. They won’t let us do it. The only reason they won’t is because we’ll find things in the hundreds of thousands. Why wouldn’t they let us verify signatures and Fulton County? Which is known for being very corrupt. They won’t do it. They go to some other county where you would live. I said, “That’s not the problem. The problem is Fulton County.” Home of Stacey Abrams. She did a good job. I congratulate her, but it was done in such a way that we can’t let this stuff happen.
We won’t have a country of it happens. As a result Georgia’s absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels, because the criteria was so off, 48 counties in Georgia with thousands and thousands of votes rejected zero ballots. There wasn’t one ballot. In other words, in a year in which more mail-in ballots were sent than ever before, and more people were voting by mail for the first time, the rejection rate was drastically lower than it had ever been before. The only way this can be explained is if tens of thousands of illegitimate votes were added to the tally, that’s the only way you could explain it. By the way, you’re talking about tens of thousands. If Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots, as in other years, there should have been approximately 45,000 ballots rejected, far more than what we needed to win, just over 11,000.
They should find those votes. They should absolutely find that just over 11,000 votes, that’s all we need. They defrauded us out of a win in Georgia, and we’re not going to forget it. There’s only one reason the Democrats could possibly want to eliminate signature matching, oppose voter ID and stop citizenship confirmation. Are you in citizenship? You’re not allowed to ask that question. Because they want to steal the election. The radical left knows exactly what they’re doing. They’re ruthless and it’s time that somebody did something about it. And Mike Pence, I hope you’re going to stand up for the good of our constitution and for the good of our country. And if you’re not, I’m going to be very disappointed in you. I will tell you right now. I’m not hearing good stories. In Fulton County, republican poll Watchers were rejected in some cases, physically from the room under the false pretense of a pipe burst.
Water main burst, everybody leave. Which we now know was a total lie. Then election officials pull boxes, Democrats and suitcases of ballots out from under a table. You all saw it on television, totally fraudulent. And illegally scanned them for nearly two hours totally unsupervised. Tens of thousands of votes, as that coincided with a mysterious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for Joe Biden, almost none for Trump. Oh, that sounds fair. That was at 1:34 AM. The Georgia secretary of state and pathetic governor of Georgia … although he says, I’m a great president. I sort of maybe have to change. He said the other day, “Yes, I disagree with president, but he’s been a great president.” Oh, good. Thanks. Thank you very much. Because of him and others. Brian Kemp, vote him the hell out of office, please.
Well, his rates are so low, his approval rating now, I think it just reached a record low. They’ve rejected five separate appeals for an independent and comprehensive audit of signatures in Fulton County. Even without an audit, the number of fraudulent ballots that we’ve identified across the state is staggering. Over 10,300 ballots in Georgia were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Georgia residents who died in 2020 and prior to the election. More than 2,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match incarcerated felons in Georgia prison. People who are not allowed to vote. More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the state’s own voter rolls. Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant, according to the postal service. At least 88,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated.
Each one of these is far more than we need. 66,000 votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age. And at least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior to November 3rd election. They say they moved right back. They move right back. Oh, they moved out. They moved right back. Okay. They miss Georgia that much. I do. I love Georgia, but it’s a corrupt system. Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,779 votes. Each and every one of these issues is enough to give us a victory in Georgia, a big, beautiful victory. Make no mistake, this selection stolen from you, from me and from the country. And not a single swing state has conducted a comprehensive audit to remove the illegal ballots. This should absolutely occur in every single contestant state before the election is certified.
In the State of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by non-citizens. 2000 ballots were returned with no address. More than 22,000 ballots were returned before they were ever supposedly mailed out. They returned, but we haven’t mailed them yet. 11,600 more ballots and votes were counted more than there were actual voters. You see that? So you have more votes again than you have voters.
150,000 people registered in Maya Copa County after the registration deadline. 103,000 ballots in the county were sent for electronic adjudication with no Republican observers. In Clark County, Nevada, the accuracy settings on signature verification machines were purposely lowered before they were used to count over 130,000 ballots. If you signed your name as Santa Claus, it would go through. There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. Over 150, 000 people were hurt so badly by what took place. And 1500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Nevada residents who died in 2020, prior to November 3rd election. More than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals who had no address and probably didn’t live there. The margin in Nevada is down at a very low number. Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. We would have won-
Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. We would have won Nevada also. Every one of these we’re going over, we win. In Michigan quickly, the secretary of state, a real great one, flooded the state with unsolicited mail-in ballot applications, sent to every person on the rolls, in direct violation of state law. More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth matched people who were deceased. In Wayne County, that’s a great one. That’s Detroit. 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to an actual registered voter. Nobody knows where they came from. Also in Wayne County, poll watches observed canvassers re-scanning batches of ballots over and over again, up to three or four or five times. In Detroit, turnout was 139% of registered voters. Think of that. So you had 139% of the people in Detroit voting. This is in Michigan, Detroit, Michigan.
A career employee of the Detroit, City of Detroit, testified under penalty of perjury that she witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, while accompanying them to watch who they voted for. When a Republican came in, they wouldn’t talk to him. The same worker was instructed not to ask for any voter ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures if they were Democrats. She also told to illegally, and was told backdate ballots received after the deadline and reports that thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated. That’s Michigan. Four witnesses have testified under penalty of perjury that after officials in Detroit announced the last votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived without required envelopes. Every single one was for a Democrat. I got no votes.
At 6:31 AM, in the early morning hours after voting had ended, Michigan suddenly reported 147,000 votes. An astounding 94% went to Joe Biden, who campaigned brilliantly from his basement. Only a couple of percentage points went to Trump. Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were only observed in a few swing states and they were observed in the states where it was necessary. You know what’s interesting, President Obama beat Biden in every state other than the swing states where Biden killed him. But the swing States were the ones that mattered. There were always just enough to push Joe Biden barely into the lead. We were ahead by a lot and within the number of hours we were losing by a little.
In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden and the same systems are used in the majority of states in our country. Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections has written a letter describing his concerns with Dominion in Georgia.
He wrote, and I quote, “The Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County had an astronomical and astounding 93.67% error rate.” It’s only wrong 93% of the time. “In the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voter’s interest, in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000.” Think of it, you go in and you vote and then they tell people who you’re supposed to be voting for. They make up whatever they want. Nobody’s ever even heard. They adjudicate your vote. They say, “Well, we don’t think Trump wants to vote for Trump. We think he wants to vote for Biden. Put it down for Biden.” The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1% and yet you’re at 93%. ” The source of this astronomical error rate must be identified to determine if these machines were set up or destroyed to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter.”
The letter continues, “There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties in Georgia. For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 29, 391 votes at 9:11 PM Eastern time. While simultaneously Vice President Joe Biden was reported to have 17,213. Minutes later, just minutes, at the next update, these vote numbers switched with President Trump going way down to 17,000 and Biden going way up to 29,391.” And that was very quick, a 12,000 vote switch, all in Mr. Biden’s favor.
So, I mean, I could go on and on about this fraud that took place in every state and all of these legislatures want this back. I don’t want to do it to you because I love you and it’s freezing out here, but I could just go on forever. I can tell you this…
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
So when you hear, when you hear, “While there is no evidence to prove any wrongdoing,” this is the most fraudulent thing anybody’s… This is a criminal enterprise. This is a criminal enterprise and the press will say, and I’m sure they won’t put any of that on there because that’s no good, do you ever see, “While there is no evidence to back President Trump’s assertion,” I could go on for another hour reading this stuff to you and telling you about it. There’s never been anything like it. Think about it, Detroit had more votes than it had voters. Pennsylvania had 205,000 more votes than it had more, but you don’t have to go any… Between that, I think that’s almost better than dead people, if you think, right? More votes than they had voters, and many other States are also.
It’s a disgrace that the United States of America, tens of millions of people are allowed to go vote without so much as even showing identification. In no state is there any question or effort made to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of the votes cast. The Republicans have to get tougher. You’re not going to have a Republican party if you don’t get tougher. They want to play so straight, they want to play so, “Sir, yes, the United States, the constitution doesn’t allow me to send them back to the States.” Well, I say, “Yes, it does because the constitution says you have to protect our country and you have to protect our constitution and you can’t vote on fraud,” and fraud breaks up everything, doesn’t it? When you catch somebody in a fraud, you’re allowed to go by very different rules. So I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope he doesn’t listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that he’s listening to. It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of non-citizens, felons and people who have moved out of state and individuals who are otherwise ineligible to vote. Yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up their voter rolls. They don’t want to clean them up, they are loaded. And how many people here know other people that when the hundreds of thousands and then millions of ballots got sent out, got three, four, five, six, and I heard one who got seven ballots. And then they say, “You didn’t quite make it, sir.” We won. We won in a landslide. This was a landslide.
They said, “It’s not American to challenge the election.” This is the most corrupt election in the history, maybe of the world. You know, you could go third world countries, but I don’t think they had hundreds of thousands of votes and they don’t have voters for them. I mean, no matter where you go, nobody would think this. In fact, it’s so egregious, it’s so bad, that a lot of people don’t even believe it. It’s so crazy that people don’t even believe it. It can’t be true. So they don’t believe it. This is not just a matter of domestic politics, this is a matter of national security. So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I’m calling on Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms, and you better do it before we have no country left. Today is not the end. It’s just the beginning.
With your help over the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country and nobody even challenges that. I say that over and over, and I never get challenged by the fake news, and they challenge almost everything we say. But our fight against the big donors, big media, big tech and others is just getting started. This is the greatest in history. There’s never been a movement like that. You look back there all the way to the Washington Monument. It’s hard to believe. We must stop the steal and then we must ensure that such outrageous election fraud never happens again, can never be allowed to happen again, but we’re going forward. We’ll take care of going forward. We got to take care of going back. Don’t let them talk, “Okay, well we promise,” I’ve had a lot of people, “Sir, you’re at 96% for four years.” I said, “I’m not interested right now. I’m interested in right there.”
With your help we will finally pass powerful requirements for voter ID. You need an ID to cash your check. You need an ID to go to a bank, to buy alcohol, to drive a car. Every person should need to show an ID in order to cast your most important thing, a vote. We will also require proof of American citizenship in order to vote in American elections. We just had a good victory in court on that one, actually. We will ban ballot harvesting and prohibit the use of unsecured drop boxes to commit rampant fraud. These drop boxes are fraudulent. There for, they get… They disappear and then all of a sudden they show up. It’s fraudulent. We will stop the practice of universal, unsolicited mail-in balloting. We will clean up the voter rolls that ensure that every single person who cast a vote is a citizen of our country, a resident of the state in which they vote and their vote is cast in a lawful and honest manner. We will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting on election day so that voters can be fully informed when they make their choice. We will finally hold big tech accountable and if these people had courage and guts, they would get rid of Section 230, something that no other company, no other person in America, in the world, has.
All of these tech monopolies are going to abuse their power and interfere in our elections and it has to be stopped and the Republicans have to get a lot tougher and so should the Democrats. They should be regulated, investigated and brought to justice under the fullest extent of the law. They’re totally breaking the law. Together we will drain the Washington swamp and we will clean up the corruption in our nation’s capital. We have done a big job on it, but you think it’s easy, it’s a dirty business. It’s a dirty business. You have a lot of bad people out there. Despite everything we’ve been through, looking out all over this country and seeing fantastic crowds, although this I think is our all time record. I think you have 250, 000 people. 250,000.
Looking out at all the amazing patriots here today, I have never been more confident in our nation’s future. Well, I have to say we have to be a little bit careful. That’s a nice statement, but we have to be a little careful with that statement. If we allow this group of people to illegally take over our country, because it’s illegal when the votes are illegal, when the way they got there is illegal, when the States that vote are given false and fraudulent information. We are the greatest country on earth and we are headed, and were headed, in the right direction. You know, the wall is built, we’re doing record numbers at the wall. Now they want to take down the wall. Let’s let everyone flow in. Let’s let everybody flow in.
We did a great job in the wall. Remember the wall? They said it could never be done. One of the largest infrastructure projects we’ve ever had in this country and it’s had a tremendous impact and we got rid of catch and release, we got rid of all of the stuff that we had to live with. But now the caravans, they think Biden’s getting in, the caravans are forming again. They want to come in again and rip off our country. Can’t let it happen. As this enormous crowd shows, we have truth and justice on our side. We have a deep and enduring love for America in our hearts. We love our country. We have overwhelming pride in this great country, and we have it deep in our souls. Together we are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the people and for the people.
Our brightest days are before us, our greatest achievements still wait. I think one of our great achievements will be election security because nobody until I came along, had any idea how corrupt our elections were. And again, most people would stand there at 9:00 in the evening and say, “I want to thank you very much,” and they go off to some other life, but I said, “Something’s wrong here. Something’s really wrong. Can’t have happened.” And we fight. We fight like Hell and if you don’t fight like Hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore.
Our exciting adventures and boldest endeavors have not yet begun. My fellow Americans for our movement, for our children and for our beloved country and I say this, despite all that’s happened, the best is yet to come.
So we’re going to, we’re going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we’re going to the Capitol and we’re going to try and give… The Democrats are hopeless. They’re never voting for anything, not even one vote. But we’re going to try and give our Republicans, the weak ones, because the strong ones don’t need any of our help, we’re going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country.
So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue. I want to thank you all. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you all for being here, this is incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Throughout the summer, Democrats cruelly blocked COVID relief legislation in an effort to advance their extreme left wing agenda and influence the election. Then a few months ago, Congress started negotiations on a new package to get urgently needed help to the American people. It’s taken forever. However, the bill they are now planning to send back to my desk is much different than anticipated. It really is a disgrace.
For example, among the more than 5,000 pages in this bill, which nobody in Congress has read because of its length and complexity, it’s called the COVID Relief Bill, but it has almost nothing to do with COVID. This bill contains $85.5 million for assistance to Cambodia, $134 million to Burma, $1.3 billion for Egypt and the Egyptian military, which will go out and buy almost exclusively Russian military equipment. $25 million for democracy and gender programs in Pakistan, $505 million to Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama. $40 million for the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, which is not even open for business. $1 billion for the Smithsonian and an additional $154 million for the National Gallery of Art. Likewise, these facilities are essentially not open.
$7 million for reef fish management, $25 billion to combat Asian carp, $2.5 million to count the number of amberjack fish in the Gulf of Mexico. A provision to promote the breeding of fish in federal hatcheries, $3 million in poultry production technology, $2 million to research the impact of down trees, $566 million for construction projects at the FBI.
The bill also allows stimulus checks for the family members of illegal aliens, allowing them to get up to $1,800 each. This is far more than the Americans are given. Despite all of this wasteful spending and much more, the $900 billion package provides hardworking taxpayers with only $600 each in relief payments and not enough money is given to small businesses. And in particular, restaurants, whose owners have suffered so grievously. They were only given a deduction for others to use in business, their restaurant, for two years. This two year period must be withdrawn, which will allow the owners to obtain financing and get their restaurants back in condition. Congress can terminate it at a much later date, but two years is not acceptable. It’s not enough.
Congress found plenty of money for foreign countries, lobbyists and special interests while sending the bare minimum to the American people who need it. It wasn’t their fault, it was China’s fault. Not their fault. I am asking Congress to amend this bill and increase the ridiculously low $600 to $2,000 or $4,000 for a couple. I’m also asking Congress to immediately get rid of the wasteful and unnecessary items from this legislation and to send me a suitable bill or else the next administration will have to deliver a COVID relief package, and maybe that administration will be me, and we will get it done. Thank you very much.
Thank you. This may be the most important speech I’ve ever made. I want to provide an update on our ongoing efforts to expose the tremendous voter fraud and irregularities which took place during the ridiculously long November 3rd elections. We used to have what was called, election day. Now we have election days, weeks, and months, and lots of bad things happened during this ridiculous period of time, especially when you have to prove almost nothing to exercise our greatest privilege, the right to vote. As President, I have no higher duty than to defend the laws and the Constitution of the United States. That is why I am determined to protect our election system, which is now under coordinated assault and siege.
For months, leading up to the Presidential election, we were warned that we should not declare a premature victory. We were told repeatedly that it would take weeks if not, months, to determine the winner, to count the absentee ballots and to verify the results. My opponent was told to stay away from the election, don’t campaign. “We don’t need you. We’ve got it. This election is done.” In fact, they were acting like they already knew what the outcome was going to be. They had it covered and perhaps they did, very sadly for our country. It was all very, very strange. Within days after the election, we witnessed an orchestrated effort to anoint the winner even while many key states were still being counted.
The constitutional process must be allowed to continue. We’re going to defend the honesty of the vote by ensuring that every legal ballot is counted and that no illegal ballot is counted. This is not just about honoring the votes of 74 million Americans who voted for me, it’s about ensuring that Americans can have faith in this election and in all future elections.
Today I will detail some of the shocking irregularities, abuses and fraud that had been revealed in recent weeks but before laying out just a small portion of the evidence we have uncovered, and we have so much evidence, I want to explain the corrupt mail-in balloting scheme that Democrats systematically put into place that allowed voting to be altered, especially in swing states, which they had to win. They just didn’t know that it was going to be that tough, because we were leading in every swing state by so much, far greater than they ever thought possible. While it has long been understood that the Democrat political machine engages in voter fraud from Detroit to Philadelphia, to Milwaukee, Atlanta, so many other places. What changed this year was the Democrat party’s relentless push to print and mail out tens of millions of ballots sent to unknown recipients with virtually no safeguards of any kind. This allowed fraud and abuse to occur in a scale never seen before. Using the pandemic as a pretext, Democrat politicians and judges drastically changed election procedures just months, and in some cases, weeks before the election on the 3rd of November.
Very rarely were legislatures involved and constitutionally, they had to be involved, but very, very rarely, and you’ll see that as we continue to file our suits, it’s constitutionally, absolutely incorrect what took place, even from a legal standpoint. Many states, such as Nevada and California sent millions of live ballots to every person on their voter rolls whether those individuals had requested ballots or not, whether they were dead or alive, they got ballots. Other states such as Minnesota, Michigan, and Wisconsin, instituted universal absentee balloting right in the middle of an election year, sending absentee ballot requests forms to all voters on all rolls. It didn’t matter who they were. This colossal expansion of mail-in voting opened the flood gates to massive fraud. It’s a widely known fact that the voting rolls are packed with people who are not lawfully eligible to vote, including those who are deceased, have moved out of their state, and even our non-citizens of our country.
Beyond this, the records are riddled with errors, wrong addresses, duplicate entries, and many other issues. This is not disputed. It has never been disputed. Dozens of counties in the key swing states have more registered voters on the rolls than they have voting age citizens, including 67 counties in Michigan. All of this is evidence. In Wisconsin, the state’s Board of Elections could not confirm the residency of more than 100,000 people, but repeatedly refused to remove those names from its voter rolls before the election. They knew why, nobody else did. I knew why. They were illegal voters. It is a travesty that in the year 2020, we do not have any means of verifying the eligibility of those who cast ballots in an election and such an important election it is, or determining who they are, whether they live in the state or whether they’re even American citizens. We have no idea.
We have an in all swing states major infractions or outright fraud, which is far more in numbers or votes then we need to overturn the results of a state. In other words, in Wisconsin, as an example, where we were way up on election night, they ultimately had us miraculously losing by 20,000 votes. I can show you right here, that Wisconsin, we’re leading by a lot and then at 3:42 in the morning, there was this, it was a massive dump of votes, mostly Biden, almost all Biden. To this day, everyone’s trying to figure out, “Where did it come from?” But I went from leading by a lot, to losing by a little and that’s right here. That’s at 3:42 in the morning, that’s Wisconsin, a terrible thing, terrible, terrible thing.
But we will have far more, many times more than the 20,000 votes needed to overturn the state. If we are right about the fraud, Joe Biden can’t be president. We’re talking about hundreds of thousands of votes. We’re talking about numbers like nobody has ever seen before. Just as an example, in certain states, we’ll be down by, let’s say, 7,000 votes, but we’ll find later on 20,000, 50,000, 100,00, 200,000 discrepancies or fraudulent votes, and that includes votes that went through when they were not allowed to be seen by Republican poll watchers, because the poll watchers were locked out of the building. Or people that innocently came to vote on November 3rd, who were all excited about their vote, they were happy. They were proud to be citizens of the United States of America, and they went up and they said, “I’d like to vote.” They were told that they can’t vote. “I’m sorry,” they were told, “I’m sorry. You’ve already voted by mail-in ballot. Congratulations. We received a ballot, so you can no longer vote.”
They didn’t know what to do. They had no one to complain to, most just left and said, “That’s strange.” But many people complained and complained vehemently, and in a lot of cases, they filled out a provisional ballot, which was almost never used, but in virtually every case was a vote for Trump. In other words, they went in to vote and they were told that they voted and they didn’t vote. They left and they felt horror and they lost respect for our system. This happened tens of thousands of times all over the country. That’s how desperate the Democrats were. They would fill out ballots of people not even knowing if these people were going to show up. When they did show up, they said, “Sorry, you’ve already voted.”
On top of everything else, we have a company that’s very suspect. It’s name is Dominion, with the turn of a dial or the change of a chip, you could press a button for Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system is this? We have to go to paper, maybe it takes longer. But the only secure system is paper. Not these systems that nobody understands, including in many cases, the people that run them. Although, unfortunately, I think they understand them far too well.
In one Michigan County, as an example, that used Dominion systems, they found that nearly 6,000 votes had been wrongly switched from Trump to Biden, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. This is what we caught. How many didn’t we catch? Are there 100s of other examples throughout the country? Are there 1000s? We just got lucky and they called it a glitch, but we found numerous glitches that evening. 96% of the company’s political donations went to Democrats, not surprisingly. Frankly, when you look at who’s running the company, who’s in charge, who owns it, which we don’t know, where are the votes counted? Which we think are counted in foreign countries, not in the United States, Dominion is a disaster. Election authorities in Texas have repeatedly blocked the deployment of Dominion systems due to concerns about security vulnerabilities and the potential for errors and outright fraud. Every district that uses Dominion systems must be carefully monitored and carefully investigated, but not only for the future.
Right now, we’re worried about the present, and what went on with an election that we won without question. Under my lead, the Republicans won almost every state house in the United States, which they weren’t expected to do. We went up to 16 seats in the house. The numbers are still being tabulated, because there are nine seats that nobody really knows. They don’t know. Two weeks later, it’s still under consideration, because it’s a mess. Republicans were supposed to lose many seats, and instead they won those seats in the house, and a very important election that’s coming up will determine whether, or not we hold the Senate.
David Perdue and Kelly Leffler are two tremendous people. Unfortunately, in Georgia, they’re using the same horrible dominion system, and it’s already been out that, think of it, hundreds of thousands of absentee ballots have been requested. You check it out who’s requesting those ballots. The difference is, it’s one state, and we will have our eyes on it like nobody’s ever watched anything before, because we have to win those two Senate seats. The tremendous success we had in the House of Representatives, and the tremendous success we’ve had so far in the Senate, unexpected success all over the country, and right here in Washington.
It is statistically impossible that the person, me, that led the charge lost. The greatest pollsters, the real pollsters, not the ones that had us down 17 points in Wisconsin when we actually won, or the ones that had us down four or five points in Florida, and we won by many points, or had us even, and down in Texas, and we won by a lot, not those pollsters, but real pollsters. Pollsters that are fair, and honest said, “We can’t understand a thing like this. It’s never happened before. You led the country to victory, and you were the only one that was lost. It’s not possible.”
The speaker of the house of a certain state said, “Sir, I expected to lose my seat, and instead, because of you, and because of that incredible charge, and all of those rallies, we had a tremendous victory, and everybody knows it. You are much more popular than me, sir, except I got many more votes than you did, and it’s impossible that that happened. There is something wrong.” I’ll tell you what’s wrong, voter fraud. Here’s an example. This is Michigan. At 6:31 in the morning, a vote dump of 149,772 votes came in unexpectedly. We were winning by a lot. That batch was received in horror.
Nobody knows anything about it. By the way, there’s your line. This is one of many. Here’s what is normal, and all of a sudden, look at that. This is normal, normal. Look even here, normal, and then boom, all of a sudden, I go from winning by a lot to losing a tight race. It’s corrupt. Detroit is corrupt. I have a lot of friends in Detroit. They know it, but Detroit is totally corrupt. Look at this, look at this. That’s at 6:31 in the morning, unexpectedly came in. In the recent recount in Georgia, which means nothing because they don’t want to check signatures, and if you’re not going to check signatures in Georgia, it doesn’t work, but we have a secretary of state, and a governor who made it very difficult to check signatures.
Why? You’ll have to ask them, but without a signature match, or a check, it doesn’t matter. They found thousands and thousands of votes that were out of whack, all against me. This was during a recount that I didn’t even think mattered. They found many thousands of votes, and that recount didn’t matter. The one that matters is the one that’s going on now, that because of the fact it’s so close, they had to by law give another recount, but the recount has to be a recount where they check the signatures. Otherwise, they’re just checking the same dishonest thing. It won’t matter.
In this case, the signatures on envelopes are the only thing that is relevant. We will compare the signature on the envelope to the signatures from past elections, and we will find that many thousands of people signed these ballots illegally. The Democrats had this election rigged right from the beginning. They used the pandemic, sometimes referred to as the China virus, where it originated as an excuse to mail out tens of millions of ballots, which ultimately led to a big part of the fraud, a fraud that the whole world is watching, and there is no one happier right now than China.
Many people received two, three and four ballots. They were sent to dead people by the thousands. In fact, dead people, and we have many examples filled out ballots, made applications, and then, voted, which is even worse. In other words, dead people went through a process. Some have been dead for 25 years. Millions of votes were cast illegally in the swing states alone, and if that’s the case, the results of the individual swing states must be overturned, and overturned immediately. Some people say that’s too far out, that’s too harsh. Well, does that mean we take a precedent, and we’ve just elected a president where the votes were fraudulent?
No, it means you have to turn over the election, and everybody knows without going much further, and they’ve seen the evidence, but they don’t want to talk about it what a disaster this election was, a total catastrophe, but we’re going to show it, and hopefully, the courts in particular, the Supreme Court of the United States will see it, and respectfully, hopefully, they will do what’s right for our country, because our country can not live with this kind of an election. We could say, let’s go on to the next one, but no, we have to look also at our past. We can’t let this happen.
Maybe you’ll have a revote, but I don’t think that’s appropriate. When those votes are corrupt, when they’re irregular, when they get caught, they’re terminated, and I very easily win. In all states, I very easily win, the swing states, just like I won them at 10 o’clock in the evening, the evening of the election. We’re not looking to show you 25 faulty or fraudulent votes, which don’t mean anything, because it doesn’t overturn the state, or a fifty, or a hundred. We’re showing you hundreds of thousands far more than we need, far more than the margin, far more than the law requires. We can show many times what is necessary to win the state.
The media knows this, but they don’t want to report it. In fact, they outright refuse to even cover it, because they know the result if they do. Even what I’m saying now will be demeaned and disparaged, but that’s okay. I just keep on going forward, because I’m representing 74 million people, and in fact, I’m also representing all of the people that didn’t vote for me. The mail-in voting scam is the latest part of their four year effort to overturn the results of the 2016 election, and it’s been like living in hell. Our opponents have proven many times again and again, that they will say, and do anything to get back into power.
The corrupt forces who are registering dead voters and stuffing ballot boxes are the same people who have perpetrated one phony and fraudulent hoax after another. You’ve been watching it now for four years. These entrenched interests oppose our movement, because we put America first. They don’t put America first, and we’re returning power to you the American people. They don’t want America first, they only want power for themselves. They want to make money, that’s why they don’t want me as your president. I’ve been investigated from soon after I announced I was running for president. When I immediately went to number one in the Republican primary polls, the investigations never stopped. They went on for four years, and I won them all, I beat them all. Russia, Russia, Russia, the impeachment hoax, and so much more. Robert Mueller spent $48 million of taxpayer money investigating me for two and a half years, issued over 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants, issued 230 orders for communications records, and conducted 500 witness interviews, all looking to take me down. There was no collusion in the end, none whatsoever. Senator Marco Rubio, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee stated, “The committee found no evidence that then candidate Donald Trump, or his campaign colluded with the Russian government.” And, I thank Senator Rubio for that statement.
Now, I hear that these same people that failed to get me in Washington have sent every piece of information to New York, so that they can try to get me there. It’s all been gone over, over and over again. For $48 million you go through tax returns, you go through everything. The New York attorney general, who recently ran for office campaigned without knowing me stating, “We will join with law enforcement and other attorneys general across this nation in removing this president from office.” I never met her.
“It’s important that everybody understands”, she said, “that the days of Donald Trump are coming to an end.” And all it’s been is a big investigation in Washington and New York and any place else that can investigate because that’s what they want to do. They want to take not me, but us down. Then we can never let them do that. Everything has been looked at. A friend of mine, who’s very smart, said, “You’ve probably seen more than anybody else. You’ve probably been investigated more than anybody else. And for you to come out with a clean bill of health makes you probably the cleanest person in this country.”
Some people in this administration, but fortunately not all have been beaten down and disparaged. They just disappeared. Nobody knows what happened to them. Why aren’t they active? Why aren’t they involved? There’s so much to be involved in. The corruption is so rampant. They just couldn’t take it anymore. They were threatened by Democrats with impeachment and horrible things were said about them. And they’re good people. Even recently, the head of the GSA was hounded and harassed as she reported, like she has never been before. What can I say? We caught Comey cold, we caught McCabe cold. We caught them all. We’re still waiting for a report from a man named Durham, who I have never spoken to, and I have never met. They can go after me before the election as much as they want, but unfortunately Mr. Durham didn’t want to go after these people, or have anything to do with going after them before the election. So who knows if he is ever going to even do a report.
But if you look at the lies, and the leaks, and the illegal acts of behavior done by so many people, and their desire to hurt the president of the United States, something should happen. The hardest thing I have to do is explain why nothing is happening with all of these people that got caught spying on my campaign. It’s never happened before and it should never happen again to a president of the United States. All you have to do is watch the hearings and see for yourself. The evidence is overwhelming. The fraud that we’ve collected in recent weeks is overwhelming, having to do with our election. Everyone is saying, ” Wow, the evidence is overwhelming”, when they get to see it. But really it’s too late to change the course of an election. It’s too late to change the outcome.
In fact, there is still plenty of time to certify the correct winner of the election and that’s what we’re fighting to do. But no matter when it happens, when they see fraud, when they see false votes and when those votes number far more than is necessary, you can’t let another person steal that election from you. All over the country, people are together in holding up signs, “Stop the steal.” To understand how we will challenge this fraud, it is important to know the problems with mail-in balloting. Pennsylvania, Michigan, Nevada, Georgia, Arizona, and most other states allowed anyone to get an absentee ballot and cast their vote without showing any ID. The voting took place entirely on the honor system, no identification of any kind was required.
Most Americans would also be shocked to learn that no state in the country verifies United States citizenship as a condition for voting in federal elections. This is a national disgrace. No other advanced country conducts elections this way. Many European countries have instituted major restrictions on mail-in voting, specifically, because they recognize the nearly unlimited potential for fraud. Out of 42 European nations, all but two prohibit absentee ballots entirely for people who reside inside the country, or else they require those who need absentee ballots to show a very, very powerful ID.
Throughout the Democrat effort to dramatically expand mail-in voting, the Democrat party leaders were also, feverishly working to block measures, designed to protect against fraud, such as signature verification, residency verification, or voter ID. And citizenship confirmation was almost unthought of that we should ask for it. Can you believe this? These are not the actions of people who want fair elections. These are the actions of people who want to steal elections, who are willing to create fraud. The only conceivable reason why you would block common sense measures to verify legal eligibility for voting, is you are trying to encourage, enable, solicit, or carry out fraud.
It is important for Americans to understand that these destructive changes to our election laws were not a necessary response to the pandemic. The pandemic simply gave the Democrats an excuse to do what they have been trying to do for many, many years. In fact, the very first bill that house Democrats introduced when Nancy Pelosi became speaker, was it attempt to mandate universal mail-in voting and eliminate measures such as voter ID, which is so necessary. Dramatically eroding the integrity of our elections was the Democrats number one priority for a simple reason, they wanted to steal the 2020 presidential election. All of the Democrat efforts to expand mail-in balloting laid the groundwork for the systematic and pervasive fraud that occurred in this election.
In Pennsylvania, large amounts of mail-in and absentee ballots were processed illegally. And in secret, in Philadelphia, in Allegheny counties, without our observers present. They were not allowed to be present. In fact, they weren’t even allowed in the same room. They were thrown out of the building and they looked from outside in, but they had no way of even seeing, because there were no windows. And the windows that were there were boarded up. Democrats even went to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to block observers from receiving access. There is only one possible reason that the corrupt Democrat political machine would oppose transparency during the vote counting. It’s because they know they are hiding illegal activity. It’s very simple.
This is an egregious, inexcusable. And irreversible harm that stains the entire election, yet this unprecedented practice of excluding our observers, our vote watchers, as some people call them, occurred in Democrat run cities and key states all across the nation. Here are just some of the additional facts that we’ve uncovered. Many voters all across Pennsylvania received two ballots in the mail, and many others received mail-in ballots for which they never applied. So many get ballots, they didn’t even know what they were for. And again, so many received more than one ballot. In some cases, more than two ballots. And they happened to be, for the most part, Democrats.
In Fayette County, Pennsylvania, multiple voters received ballots that were already filled out. They didn’t know what happened. In Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, a poll watcher, overheard unregistered voters being told to return later to try to vote under a different name. Tens of thousands of voters across Pennsylvania were treated differently based on whether they were Republicans, or Democrats. Voters who submitted floored ballots in some Democrat precincts were notified and asked to fix their ballots, while Republican precincts, and in particular Republican voters, were not so notified which plainly violates the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution.”If you are a Democrat, we’re going to fix up your ballot. make sure it’s perfect. If you are Republican, don’t even talk about it.”
In Michigan, a career employee of the city of Detroit, with the city workers, coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, while accompanying them to watch who they were voting for, violating the law and the sanctity of the secret ballot. You can’t do that. The same workers say she was instructed not to ask for any ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures. She was also told to illegally backdate ballots, many, many ballots, received after the deadline. This is something that is so unconstitutional and she estimates that thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated by her and many others.
Other witnesses in Detroit also saw our election officials counting batches of the same ballots many times, as well as illegally duplicating ballots. One observer testified to seeing boxes and boxes of ballots, all bearing the same signature. Another observer in Detroit gave sworn testimony that he saw countless and valid ballots that did not belong to properly registered voters and then witnessed election workers in Wayne County entering fake birth dates into the system, in order to illegally count them. Witnesses of science wore an affidavit, so in other words, you go to jail if you lie, testifying that after election officials announced the last absentee votes had been received, a batch of tens of thousands of ballots arrived, many without envelopes, all voting for Democrats.
In Wisconsin, a record number of voters were categorized as indefinitely confined. A status reserved for severely disabled individuals, also for the elderly that allow them to vote without showing ID. Last year, approximately 70,000 people claimed this status statewide. This year, the number miraculously was nearly 250,000 voters, after election officials in Milwaukee and Dane County, a couple of the most corrupt political places in our country, urged citizens to improperly register under this status. And register they did in levels that don’t exist. In Wisconsin, there are approximately 70,000 absentee ballots that do not have matching ballot applications as required by law in Georgia, nine observers have testified to seeing countless irregular ballots without…
Testified to seeing countless irregular ballots without the creases or typical markings indicating that the ballots did not arrive in envelopes as required. A poll watcher in Fulton County estimated that approximately 98% of the large number of unusually pristine ballots that she witnessed were for Biden. Highly unusual number. In addition, thousands of uncounted ballots were discovered in Floyd, Fayette, and Walton counties weeks after the election, and these ballots were mostly from Trump voters. They weren’t counted. They were from Trump voters.
In Detroit, everybody saw the tremendous conflict and the horrible way that the two Republican canvassers were treated so horribly because they wouldn’t vote when they saw that 71% of the precincts didn’t balance. Also, there were more votes than there were voters. Think of that. You had more votes than you had voters. That’s an easy one to figure, and it’s by the thousands. In Arizona, in-person voters whose balanced produced error messages from tabulation machines were told to press a button that resulted in their votes not being counted. Also in Arizona, the attorney general announced that mail-in ballots had been stolen from mailboxes and hidden under a rock.
In Clark County, Nevada, where most of the state’s voters reside, the standards for matching a signature using the signature verification machine were intentionally lowered to allow large numbers of ballots to be counted that otherwise would never have passed muster. This machine was set at the lowest level. According to one report, in order to test the process, nine voters in Clark County cast ballots with intentionally incorrect signatures, and eight of the nine ballots were accepted and counted. They said you could sign your name as Santa Claus, and it would be accepted. Last week, the Clark County Commission threw out the results of a local election after the registrar reported finding, quote, “discrepancies that we can’t explain.” Also in Nevada, some voters were entered into a raffle for more than a dozen gift cards worth as much as $250 if they could prove they had voted.
This took place on Indian reservations. One of the most significant indications of widespread fraud is the extraordinarily low rejection rates for mail-in ballots in many key states. These are the states that I had to win. In swing state after swing state, the number of ballots rejected has been dramatically lower than what would have been expected based on prior experience. That means years and years of voting. In Georgia, just 0.2%, that’s substantially less than 1%, of mail-in ballots have been rejected. In other words, almost none have been rejected. They took everything. Nothing was rejected, practically, compared to 6.4% in 2016. There are those that think that 6.4 was a low number.
Think of it. Almost none were rejected. The previous election, 6.4% were rejected. We have seen similar declines in Pennsylvania, Nevada, and Michigan. Ballots weren’t rejected, especially if they happen to be in Democrat areas. These irregularities are inexplicable unless there is a deliberate effort to accept ineligible ballots or fraudulent ballots.
In Pennsylvania, the secretary of state and the state supreme court in essence abolished signature verification requirements just weeks prior to the election, in violation of state law. You’re not allowed to do that. It has to be approved by the legislature. A judge can’t do it. A state can’t do it. An official can’t do it. The only one that can do it is the legislature.
The reason for this is clear. They were not verifying signatures because they know the ballots have not been filled out by the voters in whose names they were cast. In other words, people filled them out that had nothing to do with the names on the ballot. A simple recount of the ballots under these circumstances only compounds the fraud. The only way to determine whether there was an honest vote is to conduct a full review of the envelopes in the relevant states. You will find that many of them, tens of thousands, have fraudulent signatures. A full forensic audit is required to ensure that only legal ballots from lawfully registered voters that were properly cast are included in the final count.
This election is about great voter fraud, fraud that has never been seen like this before. It’s about poll watchers who were not allowed to watch. So illegal. It’s about ballots that poured in, and nobody but a few knew where they came from. They were counted, and they weren’t for me. It’s about big leads on election night, tremendous leads, leads where I was being congratulated for a decisive easy victory. All of a sudden, by morning or a couple of days later, those leads rapidly evaporated. It’s about numbers of ballots that were sent that nobody know where they came from. It’s about machinery that was defective, machinery that was stopped during certain parts of the evening, miraculously to open with more votes.
It was about many other things, but above all, it was about fraud. This election was rigged. Everybody knows it. I don’t mind if I lose an election, but I want to lose an election fair and square. What I don’t want to do is have it stolen from the American people. That’s what we’re fighting for. We have no choice to be doing that. We already have the proof. We already have the evidence, and it’s very clear. Many people in the media and even judges so far have refused to accept it. They know it’s true. They know it’s there. They know who won the election, but they refuse to say, “You’re right.” Our country needs somebody to say, “You’re right.”
Ultimately, I am prepared to accept any accurate election result, and I hope that Joe Biden is as well. We already have the proof. We already have tens of thousands of ballots more than we need to overturn all of these states that we’re talking about. This is an election for the highest office in the greatest country in the history of the world. Every reasonable American should be able to agree, based on what we have already documented, that we need a systematic analysis of the mail-in ballots to review the envelopes. It’s about the signature. If they’re on the envelopes, we can only review the envelopes, and that will tell us everything.
This is the absolute minimum we should expect. This is not just about my campaign, although it has a lot to do with who’s going to be your next president. This is about restoring faith and confidence in American elections. This is about our democracy and the sacred rights that generations of Americans have fought, bled, and died to secure. Nothing is more urgent or more important. The only ballots that should count in this election are those cast by eligible voters who are citizens of our country, residents of the states in which they voted, and who cast their ballots in a lawful manner before the legal deadline.
Moreover, we must never again have an election in which there is not a reliable and transparent system to verify the eligibility, identity, and residency of every single person who casts a ballot, a very, very cherished ballot. Many very smart people have congratulated me on all we’ve done: the biggest tax cuts in history, regulation cuts, the biggest in history. We rebuilt our military. We took care of our vets like never before, Space Force, and so much more. Then they went on to say, as big and as important as these events were, the single greatest achievement in your presidency will be exactly what you’re doing right now: voter integrity for our nation. It’s more important than any of the things that we discussed.
If we don’t root out the fraud, the tremendous and horrible fraud that’s taken place in our 2020 election, we don’t have a country anymore. With the resolve and support of the American people, we will restore honesty and integrity to our elections. We will restore trust in our system of government. Thank you. God bless you. God bless America.
Well, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Please sit. Thank you. This is without question the latest news conference I’ve ever had. Thank you. I appreciate it very much. And I want to thank the American people for their tremendous support, millions and millions of people voted for us tonight. And a very sad group of people is trying to disenfranchise that group of people and we won’t stand for it. We will not stand for it.
I want to thank the first lady, my entire family, and Vice President Pence, Mrs. Pence for being with us all through this. And we were getting ready for a big celebration. We were winning everything and all of a sudden it was just called off. The results tonight have been phenomenal and we are getting ready… I mean, literally we were just all set to get outside and just celebrate something that was so beautiful, so good. Such a vote, such a success to citizens of this country have come out in record numbers. This is a record. There’s never been anything like it to support our incredible movement. We won states that we weren’t expected to win. Florida, we didn’t win it. We won it by a lot.
We won the great State of Ohio. We won Texas, we won Texas. We won Texas. We won Texas by 700,000 votes and they don’t even include it in the tabulations. It’s also clear that we have won Georgia. We’re up by 2.5% or 117,000 votes with only 7% left. They’re never going to catch us. They can’t catch us. Likewise we’ve clearly won North Carolina. Where we’re up 1.4%. We’re 77,000 votes with only approximately 5% left. They can’t catch us. We also, if you look and you see Arizona, we have a lot of life in that. And somebody declared that it was a victory for… And maybe it will be. I mean, that’s possible. But certainly there were a lot of votes out there that we could get because we’re now just coming into what they call Trump territory. I don’t know what you call it. But these were friendly Trump voters. And that could be overturned.
The gentleman that called it, I watched tonight. He said, “Well, we think it’s fairly unlikely that he could catch.” Well, fairly unlikely? And we don’t even need it. We don’t need that. That was just a state that if we would have gotten it, it would have been nice. Arizona. But there’s a possibility, maybe even a good possibility. In fact, since I saw that originally it’s been changed and the numbers have substantially come down just in a small amount of votes. So we want that obviously to stay in play. But most importantly, we’re winning Pennsylvania by a tremendous amount of votes.
We’re up 600… Think of this. Think of this. Think of this. We’re up 690,000 votes in Pennsylvania, 690,000. These aren’t even close. This is not like, “Oh, it’s close…” With 64% of the vote in, it’s going to be almost impossible to catch. And we’re coming into good Pennsylvania areas where they happen to like your president. I mean, it’s very good. So we’ll probably expand that. We’re winning Michigan, but I’ll tell you, I looked at the numbers. I said, “Wow.” I looked, I said, “Wow, that’s a lot.” By almost 300,000 votes and 65% of the vote is in and we’re winning Wisconsin. And I said, “Well, we don’t need all of them. We need…” Because when you add Texas in, which wasn’t added, I spoke with the really wonderful governor of Texas just a little while ago, Greg Abbott, he said, “Congratulations.” He called me to congratulate me on winning Texas.
I mean, we won Texas. I don’t think they finished quite the tabulation, but there’s no way. And it was almost complete, but he congratulated me. Then he said, “By the way, what’s going on? I’ve never seen anything like this.” Can I tell you what, nobody has. So we won by 107,000 votes with 81% of the vote. That’s Michigan. So when you take those three states in particular and you take all of the others, I mean, we have so many… We had such a big night. You just take a look at all of these states that we’ve won tonight, and then you take a look at the kind of margins that we’ve won it by, and all of a sudden, it’s not like we’re up 12 votes and we have 60% left. We won states. And all of a sudden I said, “What happened to the election? It’s off.” And we have all these announcers saying what happened? And then they said, “Oh.”
Because you know what happened? They knew they couldn’t win so they said, “Let’s go to court.” And did I predict this, Newt? Did I say this? I’ve been saying this from the day I heard they were going to send out tens of millions of ballots. They said exactly, because either they were going to win or if they didn’t win, they’ll take us to court. So Florida was a tremendous victory. 377,000 votes. Texas, as we said. Ohio, think of this. Ohio a tremendous state, a big state. I love Ohio. We won by 8.1%, 460,00…think of this. Almost 500,000 votes. North Carolina, a big victory with North Carolina. So we won there. We lead by 76,000 votes with almost nothing left. And all of a sudden everything just stopped.
This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election. We did win this election. So our goal now is to ensure the integrity for the good of this nation. This is a very big moment. This is a major fraud in our nation. We want the law to be used in a proper manner. So we’ll be going to the US Supreme Court. We want all voting to stop. We don’t want them to find any ballots at four o’clock in the morning and add them to the list. Okay? It’s a very sad moment. To me this is a very sad moment and we will win this. And as far as I’m concerned, we already have won it.
So I just want to thank you. I want to thank all of our support. I want to thank all of the people that worked with us. And Mr. Vice President, say a few words, please. Please.
Thank you, Mr. President. I want to join you in thanking more than 60 million Americans who have already cast their vote for four more years for president Donald Trump in the White House. While the votes continue to be counted, we’re going to remain vigilant, as the president said. The right to vote has been at the center of our democracy since the founding of this nation and we’re going to protect the integrity of the vote. But I really believe with all of my heart, with the extraordinary margins, Mr. President, that you’ve inspired in the states that you just described, and the way that you launched this movement across the country to make America great again, I truly do believe as you do that we are on the road to victory and we will make America great again, again. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much [inaudible 00:09:56]. Thank you very much.
We’re set for a tremendous success and success is going to bring unity. And it was bringing it before and then we got hit with the China virus and that certainly, you had to go back and I think we’ve done an incredible job with respect to that. Other than public relations, because, and I’m not sure that it’s possible to convince you of it because, you know, you people were not really convincible no matter what we did. But we’ve done an incredible job, not only in handling it, don’t forget we were expecting, and people were projecting 2.2 million people. We closed up the greatest economy in the history of the world, for any country, not just for our country, and we are now opening it up. We saved more than 2 million lives and did an incredible job with therapies and therapeutics and with, I think, maybe cures because frankly, some of this stuff is so good.
But, if you look at the ventilator situation, we had a ventilator problem and now with all the work that everybody’s done, including Jared, people coming in from Silicon Valley, and now we’re sending the ventilators all over. I mean, all over the world now, all over the world, we’re producing them for other countries. But it’s been an incredible period of time. And I think that if you look at, and I say it and I say it proudly, we are rounding the corner, but the vaccines are coming out very soon. They’re having tremendous success, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer, and we’re going to have something, we’re going to have a very special year. Next year, I think is going to be more successful than it was last year. We had the best year we’ve ever had last year and I think we’re going to be right in that category for next year. So that’s very successful.
Mr. President, have you written an acceptance speech and a concession speech?
No, I’m not thinking about concession speech or acceptance speech yet. Hopefully we’ll be only doing one of those two and, you know, winning is easy. Losing is never easy, not for me it’s not. But I think we have, when you see rallies, the likes of which in the history of this country, probably in the history of the world, nobody’s ever seen before. There’s a tremendous love going on in this country and there’s really a tremendous unity. There’s a tremendous unity. Nobody’s ever seen that, where you take an airport and the airport is not big enough to hold the crowds. Nobody’s ever seen a thing like that. And our opposition, as you know, would have a few people sitting in circles and that’s okay. That’s not abnormal. That’s not abnormal, actually. I mean, that’s the way it is. But we would get crowds of 50,000 people, 45,000 people, more. Nobody’s ever seen anything like that. So, it was an honor. They’re great people. These are people that, they appreciate what we did and they also remember before I got there and before we all got there. This group has been with me, a lot of them are very young, but they’ve been with me, many of them for a long time, right? A long time. And I just want, I really came here to thank you all. And then I’m going to say and get immediately back to work. But I want to thank you.
If you had one more day on the campaign trail, where would you go and what would you do?
Well, we spent a lot of time in Pennsylvania. It’s always been a very good place for me. I went to college there, it’s always been good. I think Pennsylvania is very important. Florida is very important, obviously. A lot of people talked about Texas and Texas is, we will have a tremendous victory there based on, you know, everything that you see. This is no longer polls, this is now we’re looking at what’s happening.
Are you worried about Pennsylvania?
It will be a tremendous victory in Texas. I’m hearing we’re doing tremendously well in Arizona. I think we’re doing well all over. Yeah?
When do think we’ll know? Should every vote be counted no matter how long it takes?
Well, I think you’ll know possibly tonight, depending on the extent of a victory. I think you could know tonight. I think the ruling on Pennsylvania was an unfortunate one by the Supreme Court, because I think we should know what happens on the night. Let people put their ballots in earlier, but you have to have numbers. You can’t have these things delayed for many days and maybe weeks, you can’t do that. The whole world is waiting. This country is waiting, but the whole world is waiting. And a lot of shenanigans, a lot of bad things happen with ballots. When you say, “Oh, let’s devote days and days.” And all of a sudden the ballot count changes. And you take a look at Philadelphia, the history of Philadelphia politics. No, I don’t put people on their honor code. I don’t think it’s right and I think it’s a very dangerous thing that they’ve done with that decision and maybe their wisdom will change that decision or maybe we’ll go back and give them a right to change it. But that’s a terrible, it’s a very dangerous decision for this country, what they did with Pennsylvania and some others also.
You have to have a date and the date happens to be November 3rd, and we should be entitled to know who won on November 3rd. And if somebody comes along and puts a ballot in way late, they shouldn’t be, they should put the ballot in earlier. There’s no reason why they can’t put the ballot in two weeks earlier or one week earlier. I think it’s a very dangerous decision for our country in many ways dangerous, in many ways. Yeah?
Will you speak to the American people tonight, regardless of the outcome or not-
Well, I may, I mean, we’re going to have to see, we have a big night planned. We’re going to have a very big night. I just think we’re going to have a tremendous, I think we’re going to have a… Look I’m looking at, right now I’m looking at different locations and we’re seeing lines of people and they’re wearing a lot of red material, including hats. But no, we’re seeing, in certain areas that would be Trump areas, we’re seeing lines of people that are extended or miles. You’re seeing it too. I mean, you don’t have to say, but you’re seeing it too. So, I think we’re going to have a great night, but it’s politics and it’s elections and you never know. I can say that Texas, Arizona, a few of them are looking really very, very strong, Florida looking very, very strong. They spent hundreds of millions of dollars in Florida, but the people of Florida, they know I love them and they love me. You know, we just have a automatic bond. Yeah, please.
What are you seeing in Florida, especially from the seniors? Are you worried about any slippage there or do you think-
No, I don’t think we’re going to have any slippage. I think we’re going to have, look, my relationship to seniors, I happen to be a senior. I don’t want to say that too loud in this group. People that are averaging about 20 years old, but I don’t think we’re going to have anything. I think if anything, we’re going to do very well. I have seen and we have seen African-Americans way up and Hispanic Americans way up and people have seen that. And, you know, I’ve said that with regard to African American, the Black community, I’ve done more than any other president with the exception of Abraham Lincoln. And sometimes I say with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, but let’s give him a lot of credit, right?
But I’ve done more than any other president in the history of this country for African-American, the Black community and they understand the criminal justice reform, prison reform, historically Black colleges and universities. You look at what we’ve done. Opportunity zones with Tim Scott of South Carolina who’s great. Nobody’s done what I’ve done in terms of the African-American community. So, and they see it and they’re tired of being used by the Democrats for a hundred years. I mean, it’s been a hundred years. So I think we’re doing very well there and I’ve heard we’re doing very well with the Hispanic community.
Did you put any of your own money into your campaign?
What’s that?
Did you put any of your own money into your campaign?
Well you’ll see that in the filings. We had plenty of money, I will tell you. We had plenty of money. And what I didn’t do is call up Wall Street and say, “Send me $25 million to the head of every firm. I could have done that. I would have been the all time King of fundraising if I did that. But once you do that, you can no longer deal properly with them. You just can’t. So I didn’t do that. We could have done that. I could have raised much more money. I mean, Hillary Clinton spent much more money than I did. And in this case, when they raise that much money, that means to me they’re making deals and that can’t happen.
So thank you very much. We’ll, maybe see you later. Have an exciting day. And for you, I just appreciate everything you’ve all done and we’ll see you soon, okay?
Well, hello, Michigan? Congressman Huizenga, Congressman Moolenaar, GOP Chair Laura Cox, to all of you have been with us every step of the way. It is great to be back in the Great Lakes State, just 80 minutes from election day when we reelect President Donald Trump for four more years.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Wow. It is really great to be with y’all and a special treat tonight to be with my much better half, she’s a military mom, she’s been committed to helping our military families, been my wife for 35 years. But she’s the best Second Lady the United States has ever had. Would you join me in thanking my wonderful wife, Karen Pence.
But we’re here tonight for the same reason you are. For one reason and one reason only. And that is that Michigan and America need four more years of President Donald Trump in the White House. It’s on, and the road to victory goes straight through Michigan.
You all are great to be out tonight. And you know, I got to tell you, I just spoke to the President. He just finished up in Wisconsin, but he can’t wait to get to Grand Rapids. It’s great to be back here tonight. We’ll never forget. We’ll never forget being in Grand Rapids four years ago tonight. The clock ticked past midnight. It was election day 2016. The President spoke until about 1:30 in the morning and he walked up to me after he walked off the stage, he looked out at the crowd just like this one and he slapped me on the shoulder and said, “Mike, I don’t know about you, but that doesn’t look like second place.” And it still doesn’t. Michigan did it before and I know Michigan’s going to do it again.
We’re going to show America that Michigan is Trump country.
Thank you all for coming out. What an incredible site. And I know there’s more people waiting to get in and I’m telling you what, it really is incredible to be with you. And it’s also great to be here with some great leaders who served alongside with us every step of the way. Would you join me in thanking two of the most principled conservative leaders in Congress? Two men have been with us every step of the way. Congressman John Moolenaar and Congressman Bill Huizenga.
And how about the next Congressman from the third congressional district, Peter Meijer? and earlier tonight, the President and I were with a friend of mine, got to know him over the last couple of years. He’s a man of integrity, dedicated to his family. He’s a West Point graduate, a combat veteran, a businessman, and the next Senator from the great State of Michigan, John James. Four years ago, we inherited a military that had been hollowed out by devastating budget cuts, an economy that was struggling to break out of the slowest recovery since the Great Depression, terrorism was on the rise around the world, and we witnessed a steady assault on our most cherished values. But in three short years, we rebuilt our military, we revived our economy, we secured our border, supported law enforcement and stood for life, liberty and the Constitution of the United States. Incredible.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
And on the economy, after Joe Biden’s spent eight years in the White House trying to tax and spend and bail us back to a growing economy, President of Donald Trump created the greatest economy in American history, and we are doing it again.
How about those new GDP numbers last week? Isn’t that something? The American economy grew by more than 33%. Shattering any previous record. The American comeback is on. And with four more years of President Donald Trump, we’re going to bring this economy back bigger and better than ever.
You know, that great American comeback is a testament to all of you, to the character and the resilience and the strength of the American people. But it’s also a tribute to a President and our allies in the Congress who worked with us to create the greatest economy the world has ever seen.
That’s why it’s astonishing in the midst of a global pandemic, Joe Biden wants to raise taxes by $4 trillion. On Friday, his running mate, Kamala Harris said, quote, the first order of business is to get rid of the President’s tax cuts. They got a $2 trillion version of the Green New Deal, but under President Donald Trump, where they’re planning to raise your taxes, we cut taxes across the board.
We rolled back more federal regulation than any administration in history. We fought for free and fair trade, unleashed American energy, and in three short years, businesses created 7 million good paying jobs, including 112,000 jobs right here in the Great Lakes State. Unemployment reached a 50 year low, and wages were rising across the board in those first three years.
And they were rising most rapidly for hardworking, blue collar Americans. The forgotten men and women of America were forgotten no more. When Joe Biden was Vice President, America actually lost 200,000 manufacturing jobs. I come from just south of here in Indiana, just like Michigan, we do two things well out this way, don’t we? We make things and we grow things, right?
The last President actually said, after losing 200,000 manufacturing jobs, he said, “They’re never coming back.” Remember he said, “What magic wand do you have?” Well, we didn’t need a magic wand. We just needed President Donald Trump in the White House.
500,000 manufacturing jobs in just three years. So manufacturing came roaring back and when it comes to trade so important here in Michigan, what we make and what we grow, we sell to the world. Joe Biden’s been a cheerleader of communist China, all along the way while they took advantage of the United States, put barriers to their markets while we put none to ours.
And closer to home, when it came to our trading relationship with Canada and Mexico, Joe Biden liked to complain a lot about NAFTA, but he never lifted a finger to fix what was wrong with it when we saw thousands of factories closed and jobs shipped south of the border. But under President Donald Trump, we put China on notice.
We said the era of economic surrender is over. We stood strong, imposed tariffs, and NAFTA is now gone. And the USMCA is here to stay. And it’s something you ought to know about Joe Biden’s running mate as well. I had a little debate with Kamala Harris in Salt Lake city a couple of weeks ago. Thank you. Some people think we did all right. So… thank you. But you all deserve to know in this hard working State of Michigan, despite the fact that USMCA was a huge win for Michigan, right, Bill?
I mean, Kamala Harris was one of only 10 senators to vote against the USMCA. Kamala Harris said the USMCA didn’t go far enough on climate change. I mean, she put her radical environmental agenda ahead of Michigan jobs and Michigan workers. No wonder she was listed as the most liberal member of the United States Senate last year. But when it comes to trade or anything else for that matter, I promise you, President Donald Trump will always put American jobs and American workers first. And on energy, Joe Biden wants to crush American energy under a $2 trillion Green New Deal that would raise the cost of electricity for every home in business in America. It’s true. The President had to remind him he was for it in that first Presidential debate, remember? But he is, right?
And Kamala Harris, she was the original co-sponsor in the Senate of the Green New Deal. The truth is Joe Biden and Kamala Harris want to abolish fossil fuels, end fracking. It would destroy hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs. They said it over the last year, over and over again, but now, right, Joe Biden shows up in Pittsburgh. I wasn’t far from there today. And he’s trying to convince people that he’s not for banning fracking. He actually said that our President was lying about it. It came up in the Presidential debate. How good did President Trump do in that Presidential debate? Wasn’t that a great night? That ball is still going.
Anyway, it came up in the Presidential debate. Remember Joe Biden, about 90 minutes into the debate, he said, “America needs to make a transition from the oil industry.” I love what the President said. He said, “That’s a big statement.” But by the next morning, Joe Biden was already denying, but [inaudible 00:12:32] even in the debate, remember? He said, “Show the tape.” So we’ve been showing the tape.
I got to tell you, men and women of Michigan, look, no matter what Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are saying right now, you can take it to the bank. Joe Biden and the radical left are going to abolish fossil fuels, ban fracking, close down the oil industry if they ever get to the White House, but we’re not going to let it happen. We’re going to have more fracking, more American energy and energy independence for generations to come with four more years of President Donald Trump in the White House.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Folks, the choice we face in this election, I really believe it’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden depression. I mean, there was an independent review of his plans last week. Said that Joe Biden’s economic policies would cost this country 5 million jobs and cut the average income of the Americans by household by $6,500 a year. So anyway, every minute between now and when the polls close tomorrow here in Michigan, if you come across a family member or a coworker or a neighbor that is still undecided, I want you to say I was out at the airport, ran into Mike and he said if I ran into anybody who was undecided, I was just supposed to ask him one question. Seriously. Just look them in the eye and say everything I, just everything else. Just look them in the eye and say, “Who do you really think can bring this economy all the way back?”
Trump.
Am I right? A career politician who spent 47 years in Washington, DC raising taxes, growing government, waving a white flag on international trade or a proven job creator who’s overseeing the fastest economic recovery in us history? You ask them. If they’re honest, they’ll answer. So this election really is about prosperity. It’s about jobs, about our children’s future, but it’s also about national security. And I’ll tell you what, I couldn’t be more proud to serve alongside a President who cares so deeply about the men and women of our armed forces and their families. You might not know the Pences are actually a military family. My son’s a United States Marine. My daughter is married to a Navy pilot who’s currently deployed. And we couldn’t be more proud of them. In fact, my daughter is a military spouse, and while her husband is away, she’s out campaigning a little bit with mom and dad. Would you welcome my wonderful daughter, Charlotte Pence Bond? Incredible Navy spouse and a writer. And a leader. So proud of her.
When Joe Biden was Vice President, we saw years of reckless budget cuts in our national defense, didn’t we? And over the last few days, you can go look it up, leading Democrats in Washington are talking about massive cuts in defense spending to pay for all their big government plans.
President Donald Trump, we rebuild our military, we restore the arsenal democracy. President Trump signed the largest investment in our national defense since the days of Ronald Reagan. And with four more years, we’re going to keep giving our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guard, the resources and the support they need to defend this nation.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
It’s not just about those that serve today. It’s about all of you who did serve in the uniform. When Joe Biden… Yeah, put your hand in the air if you’re a veteran of our armed forces, would you please? Let us thank you one more time. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. Thank you for our freedom.
When Joe Biden was Vice President, America saw years of scandal at the VA that shocked the conscience of the nation. You remember. We had literally some of America’s veterans that were dying on waiting lists, waiting to get the care that they earned in the uniform of the United States.
But under President Donald Trump, those days are over. President Trump signed the most sweeping reforms of the VA in 50 years. We fired 3,000 VA employees that weren’t giving our veterans the care they need and Veterans Choice is now available for every veteran in America.
So for a strong national defense, for taking care of our veterans, let me just say, it’s one more reason why we need John James in the United States Senate. And when it comes to law and order, you all know President Donald Trump has stood every day with the men and women who serve on the thin blue line of law enforcement and we always will. The President and I know what you know. Men and women who serve in law enforcement are some of the best people in this country and they deserve the respect of every American every day.
The truth is though, you remember the violence over this last summer and all Joe Biden never talked about was peaceful protestors. But rioting and looting is not peaceful protest. Burning businesses is not free speech.
The truth is Joe Biden would double down on the policies that have led to violence in America’s cities. Joe Biden explains it all by saying he believes America is systemically racist. And he and Kamala Harris often say that they believe police officers have an implicit bias against minorities.
When Joe Biden was asked whether he’d cut funding for law enforcement, he replied, “Yes, absolutely.” And Kamala Harris recently praised the Mayor of Los Angeles for cutting $150 million out of the LAPD’s budget. But under President Donald Trump, I’ll make you a very firm promise, we’re not going to defund the police. Not now, not ever.
We’re going to back the blue and we’re going to back the blue for four more years. And we’re going to have law and order in every city in every state in this nation for every American of every race and creed and color.
It’s been about standing with people that protect and serve. But this President is also stood strong for all the God-given liberties enshrined in our constitution and in the hearts of the American people, like the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech and the second amendment right to keep and bear arms.
To that end, we’ve appointed more than 200 conservative judges to our federal courts at every level. And they’re all men and women all uphold the God-given liberties enshrined in our founding documents. That includes Justice Neil Gorsuch, Justice Brett Kavanaugh and that includes the Supreme Court’s newest, brilliant principled woman, Justice Amy Coney Barrett.
ACB. ACB. ACB. ACB.
Isn’t she great? And not just because she’s from Indiana. How much did you love it when one of those Senators asked her, show me what you got written down on that paper. “Nothing.” She’s so impressive. I’ll tell you, and she’s going to stand strong for all the liberties we cherish.
When Joe Biden was Vice President, we actually saw a steady assault on our first freedom, the freedom of religion. The last administration used the power of the federal government to erode the conscience rights of doctors and nurses in religious charities. They even hauled a group of nuns into federal court to force them to compromise their faith to live under the Obamacare. It’s true.
And the same religious intolerance happened when Amy Coney Barrett was nominated to the court of appeals two years ago. You remember? She was in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee and the leading Democrat on that committee said she was concerned about Amy Coney Barrett’s Catholic faith, because she said, and I quote “The Dogma lives loudly within you.” And then Hollywood elite started attacking Amy Coney Barrett for her faith and they’ve never stopped. Well, I got news for the Democrats in Washington and their Hollywood friends. That Dogma lives loudly in me. That Dogma lives loudly in you. And the right to live and worship according to the dictates of our faith lives loudly in the Constitution of the United States of America.
Under President Donald Trump, we restored the conscience rights of doctors and nurses. We stood strong for religious freedom. We ended the assault on the Little Sisters of the Poor, and we are going to stand for the religious freedom of every American of every faith for four more years. And finally, where Joe Biden and Kamala Harris support taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of birth, I couldn’t be more proud to be Vice President to a President who stands without apology for the sanctity of human life.
So in our first three years, we rebuilt our military, we revived our economy, we stood for law and order, liberties in life. And none of that would’ve been possible without the strong and consistent support of Michigan’s Republicans in Congress. So right after you reelect President Donald Trump, right after you send John James to the United States Senate, the President and I need Michigan to send Bill Huizenga, John Moolenaar, Peter Meijer, and Lisa McClain to a new Republican majority in Congress and retire Nancy Pelosi once and for all.
Out.
I’m telling you, I was there 10 years ago when we retired Nancy Pelosi the last time. And I intend to be here when we do it again. When you look at everything we were able to accomplish with Republican majorities in the House and Senate, I think there’s only one way you can describe it. In three short years, we Made America Great Again. Right?
And then 2020 arrived. And the Coronavirus struck from China. The American people have seen this President’s leadership up close. I mean, before there was a single case of community spread anywhere in America, President Trump did what no American President had ever done. He suspended all travel from China, the second largest economy in the world. President Trump put the health of America first.
Now Joe Biden said that was xenophobic. Essentially means that he thought it was racist. He actually wrote that closing down travel in a global pandemic would make things worse, but Joe Biden got it wrong. And President Trump got it right. By shutting down travel from China, President Trump’s saved untold American lives because it bought us invaluable time to stand up the greatest national mobilization since World War II.
It’s true.
We reinvented testing. We saw to the manufacturer of billions of supplies, new medicines and therapeutics. And we’re just a matter of weeks away from having the first Coronavirus vaccine with tens of millions of doses for the American people.
And I want to promise the people of Michigan, you can be confident. We’re going to keep making sure those supplies and medicines are there. We’re going to keep driving toward a vaccine until we put this pandemic in the past. And we’re going to keep opening up America again. I know, I got to tell you, it’s amazing to think how this economy has come back. In just the last five months alone, after losing 22 million jobs at the height of this pandemic because of the foundation the President poured in those first three years, because of the unprecedented relief that these Congressmen made available to families and to businesses, we’ve actually seen 11 and a half million Americans already go back to work, including 600,000 people right here in the State of Michigan. We are opening up America again, and the Michigan economy is coming back.
But you all deserve to know that Joe Biden is talking about shutting down our economy again. I mean, you’ve dealt with enough here at Michigan, right? I mean, the truth is, newspapers are already reporting there’s countries in Europe that are already starting to shut down. So you can bet that Joe Biden will lock down the American economy if he makes it to the White House. All your schools will be closed, all your churches and synagogues, places of worship. Main Street will be all shuttered once again right at the moment that the American economy is getting back on its feet, Joe Biden said, and I quote, he would shut it down.
Joe Biden is going to shut down, going to shut down our economy. And he says, we’re in for a long dark winter, but under President Donald Trump, we’re going to defeat the virus. And the best is yet to come.
The choice in this election has never been clearer. The stakes have never been higher. When you look at their agenda of higher taxes, open borders, socialized medicine, a Green New Deal, defunding the police, abortion on demand, it’s clear. Joe Biden would be nothing more than a Trojan horse for the radical left. It’s true.
I mean, I saw where Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are already angling for cabinet posts. The truth is, you all know what’s at stake. Now, Joe Biden says that democracy is on the ballot. Well, I think our economic recovery is on the ballot. I think law and order are on the ballot. But I also think there’s things much more foundational to who we are that are on the ballot as well.
You know, in this election. I think it’s not going to be so much whether America ends up more Republican or more Democrat, more liberal or more conservative, more red or more blue. I think the choice in this election is whether America remains America.
It’s whether we’re going to chart a course and Michigan will play an outsize role in this decision, so hear me out. It’s whether we’re going to chart a course based on our American heritage of faith and family and patriotism and freedom, or whether we’re going to let Joe Biden and the Democratic party surrender our country to the radical left, shut down our economy, topple our heritage of freedom and values into an avalanche of socialism and decline.
So let me say to all of you from my heart, for everything that has always made America unique and exceptional and great, for the freedom that generations of Americans have fought to defend, we’ve got to decide right here and right now that Joe Biden will never be President of the United States. We’re going to reelect President Donald Trump for four more years.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Men and women, I got to tell you when I got the phone call four years ago to join this ticket, I said yes in a heartbeat because I heard and saw in this President, both the vision and the leadership ability to make this country great again. We’ve served alongside each other every day for the last four years. And you know, some people think we’re a little bit different, but I got to tell you, we’ve gotten to be very close friends.
And I can tell you firsthand when the Klieg lights are off and the cameras are off, there’s never been a day gone by in the last four years that I haven’t seen this President against unprecedented resistance and-
… against unprecedented resistance and opposition by the Democrats in Washington, against unrelenting and unfair attacks by their allies in the national media. There hasn’t been a day gone by that I haven’t seen our president get up and fight to keep the promises that he made to the people of Michigan. Now it’s our turn to fight for him. It’s on, Michigan. It’s time to bring it. It’s time to do what you did four years ago.
Tell your neighbors and friends what four more years means. Four more years means more jobs, four more years means more judges, four more years means more support for our troops. And it’s going to take at least four more years to drain that swamp.
Drain that swamp. Drain that swamp. Drain that swamp. Drain that swamp. Drain that swamp. Drain that swamp.
Oh, we’re draining it.
It’s just like the president says a little deeper than we thought it was, we’re draining it though. We found the plug and we’re going to pull it tomorrow. So I got to ask you to do a couple of things. Air Force One is on its way in, and before you know it President Donald Trump will be in the house but on all of our behalf, I want to ask you to do a couple of things. First and foremost, about 47 minutes from now, it’ll be election day. Tomorrow morning, the polls open at 7:00 AM. Stay open till 8:00. So I’m going to ask you personally, I need you to vote Michigan, vote to reelect president Donald Trump to the White House. And remember, friends don’t let friends vote alone, bring a family member, bring a coworker, bring a neighbor and vote to reelect president Donald Trump for four more years.
After you vote with a friend, number two, I want you to tell somebody why you came out late at night. Why are you here on this historic night in Grand Rapids. I want you to tell them all that we accomplished in those first three years with the president that kept his promises to Michigan. I want you to tell them about the choice that we face and how we’re going to set a course for this nation for generations to come.
The President and I were on 60 Minutes the other night but he got a question during his interview and he gave an answer I’ll never forget. Because the reporter, I’m looking out at all of you, the reporter looks at the president and she said, “So how would you describe your supporters?” The president answered without missing a beat. She said, “How would you describe your supporters?” And he said, “They are people who love our country.” So go tell your neighbors and friends that you love our country and we need four more years of President Donald Trump in the White House.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Finally, this is just from me and from my family, as I’ve traveled around this country the last four years, I’ve become convinced this is a freedom loving nation, and this is a nation of faith. And so if you’re inclined like the Pences are to bow the head and bend the knee at your house from time to time, I’d encourage you to do that the next day. When you pray, pray with confidence in these challenging times where it seems like there’s more that divides us than any time in my lifetime, we ought to claim those ancient words that have seen Americans through much more challenging times than we could possibly imagine. The words of an ancient promise that say, if his people who are called by his name will humble themselves and pray and turn that he’ll do like he’s always done in the long and storied history of this great nation, he’ll hear from heaven and he’ll heal this land. This one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. So pray for America. Pray for all the American people. It’ll make a difference.
So thank you for the warm welcome today. Thank you for giving my family such a warm welcome, I have to tell you, it’s the greatest honor of my life to be your vice president, but I want to be your vice-president for four more years. But I leave here today with renewed confidence, I’m telling you standing where I’m standing, you’d be confident too. Wow. I called him up after I got off the plane, I called him on the tarmac. I said, “You are not going to believe it.” I know he can’t wait to get here, but listen, I’m confident. If all of us do all we need to do between now and eight o’clock tomorrow here in Michigan, between now and when the polls close all across this country, we’re going to have a great victory all across Michigan, all across America.
And with Bill Huizenga, John Moolenaar, Peter Meijer, Lisa McClain and a new Republican majority in the Congress with John James in the United States Senate with President Trump in the White House for four more years and with God’s help, we’re going to make Michigan and America more prosperous than you could possibly imagine. We’re going to make Michigan and America safer than ever before. We’re going to make Michigan and America more united than ever before, and together we will make America great again, again. Thank you very much, Michigan. God bless you. God bless America. Now let’s go get it done.
(singing)
Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.
(singing)
Grand Rapids, Michigan. Please welcome the 45th president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
(singing)
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Thank you very much Grand Rapids, you know, this is … This was our final night prior to a very, very big victory, that was it. Remember? We left at around 1:00 in the morning. I got home, my wife said, now First Lady, said, “You have to be kidding.” We came home late and then we watched the beautiful victory, and we’re going to have another beautiful victory tomorrow. And we’re going to win the state of … You know what we’re going to win, we’re going to win the state so easily. We’re going to win the state of Michigan so easily. We want to do it just like last time. But let’s give me a little bit more margin than that if you don’t mind.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
So we’re going to win the state of Michigan and we are going to win four more years in that very beautiful, beautiful, beautiful house. It’s called the White House. We made history together four years ago, and tomorrow we’re going to make history once again. So this has been really, this was amazing, Grand Rapids, I’ll never forget it though.
We were called, late in the evening, Ronna, thank you very much, wherever you may be. She kept calling, say, “One more trip, one more trip to Michigan, I’m telling you, one more trip.” And then we heard crooked Hillary was coming back because they were hearing … Oh, you know, Michigan hadn’t been won for a long time, many, many years by a Republican. We heard that Barack Hussein Obama and Hillary, Bill, and Bill was the only one that got it right. Said, “You don’t want to run against Trump,” he said that very early. He was the only one, he’s the only one that understood what was going on actually.
But they came and they came and they wanted to be in Michigan, which was unscheduled. So I got a call from Ronna, the whole group, and they said, “Could you go back?” We got here at 12:00 in the evening, I started speaking at 12:30, now election day, I’ll never forget it. We had 32,000 people, almost as many as we have tonight. And I said to my team, “We have to … This is it.” We’ve done five, but actually six, because we ended up last night around 2:00 in the morning in Miami, so we can say that includes this … So that would be six. We’ve done six of these big, and every one was just a lot of people. And you know what? There was a lot of love. There was a lot of love. We had a lot of love.
We had 45,000 people in Florida last night. By the way, we’re doing very well in Florida. We’re doing very, very well in Wisconsin. We’re doing very well in Texas, I hear great things about Texas. You know they’re saying Texas may be even … Well, you know, then you think sleepy Joe Biden’s against guns. That’s not good for Texas, right? He’s against oil. Oil isn’t good. If you’re against oil, that’s not good politics, right Texas? And he’s against god. Right?
When you have guns, oil, and god, and he’s doing well in Texas, I don’t think so. But I actually know for a fact we’re doing very well in Texas. I think we’re doing very well all over. I think you’re going to have, I don’t know if it’s as much of a … I don’t know what’s a surprise. We fulfilled everything we said we were going to fulfill, and that’s why people are [inaudible 01:24:17]
And we did some things that we never even talked about, right? We never talked about Space Force. We got it. And I said you know what? I looked at Russia, I looked at China, and I said, “We need Space Force.” And we did it, first time in 74 years, not since the Air Force.
But I want to thank you all. We have a great group of people here. I’d like to show our appreciation for our phenomenal vice president, Mike Pence, and his amazing wife Karen. Did he make a good speech? I saw him on the plane and I couldn’t sort of … Did he make a good speech? Huh? He’s great, I’ll tell you what. It was close, it was close. If I had my choice between Mike and Kamala, I think it’s a very close choice, but I think I’ll take Mike. I think we’ll stick with Mike and Karen. No.
By the way, how badly did he beat her in that debate? Did you ever hear the expression, if that were a fight they would have stopped it.
He did great.
But anyway. No, Mike’s been great from day one, and I appreciate it. I also want to thank Don, Jr., Eric, Ivanka, Tiffany. Words cannot express how proud you make me every single day. No matter what happens tomorrow, I’m very proud of you all.
We love you Don, Jr.
But if we don’t win I’ll never speak to them again. They like him. They like them all. No no. I’m very proud. We’re very proud of you. Thank you. Look at these people. There’s a lot of spirit here. A lot of spirit.
No, it’s funny though, I kept saying we have to finish off here. We have to do it. It’s just we could be a little bit superstitious, right? But you people, you’ve been great, you’ve been great. And I think we’re going to have a tremendous victory in Michigan.
Don’t forget, four years ago I said, “Why are so many car companies leaving?” You know, you were losing everything to Mexico and to China and to frankly Canada, and you were losing everything. And we stopped it, and now you have many, many car plants that have already been built, are being built, renovations, 17 … You didn’t have a deal in like 42 years. It was always going out. Now they’re all coming in. I want to thank Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I said, “Shinzo, Shinzo, you got to do me a favor, Shinzo. You got to build some plants.” And he said, “No, no, no, we are the government, we don’t do that. That’s up to the private sector.” I said, “No, Shinzo, you got to do it. You got to do it. It’s not fair. You’re sending too many cars and they’re built in Japan. We wanted them built in Michigan, we wanted them built in Ohio, we want them built in South Carolina and North Carolina. We got to do it.”
He says, “But I do not do that, Donald.” And the next day they announced five companies are coming to Michigan. But he’s a great guy. And he retired. He had some difficulty with his health, but he was a great prime minister of Japan, and he did a great favor to Michigan and to us, all of us, he’s a … We have a lot of activity in Michigan. It would be nice if your governor would open up the state, however. Would open up the state. Open up your schools, open up the state, go back. Get back to business.
Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
The only one that’s allowed to roam free is her husband. What’s her husband like? Remember? That wasn’t so long ago. He’s allowed to do whatever he wants. But everybody else, you’re not allowed to leave your house or your apartment. No, she’s got to open it up. Well they will. On November 4th, she’ll announce, “Okay, now we’re going to open.” You know, they’re doing that for political … They think it hurts us in the election. Actually it helps us, okay? Who has voted so far? Has anyone voted? Okay, good. Because you’re saving it, right? You’re saving it for Tuesday? Right? No, we’re cool. We’re going to have a red wave, they call it the great red wave like nobody’s ever seen before. Like nobody’s ever seen. So based on just early results though, Florida looks like it’s phenomenal. Just phenomenal. North Carolina’s looking great. I think they’re all looking great. Ohio is looking fantastic.
You know, we won Ohio last time by eight points, and I said, “Well why are …” These fake polls that they put out, they’re called suppression polls. If they make them bad enough, they hope you don’t want to waste your time and vote, right? We love our president, but if he’s losing by 250 points, let’s stay home and have dinner, darling.
It doesn’t work, because you people don’t, you don’t go for the bait do you?
No.
It’s really amazing. And I think we’re winning. I think we’re going to win everything. I think tomorrow’s going to be-
Big win.
… one of the greatest wins in the history of politics.
I want to give the very special thank you also to Jared Kushner, who is in the process of negotiating a little thing called peace in the Middle East. Great guy. Great guy. They like that. They like the sound. Peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand, no blood in the sand, and no cost, just peace. Already three countries, UAE, a great leader, Mohammed, great leader. And three countries have already signed. Bahrain. It’s already signed. Sudan. And we have many, many countries, how many do we have lined up? It’ll be more than 10.
Now what would happen if sleepy Joe Biden had to take over the deal? You know what happens? That’s the end of that deal. You can forget that deal. The sleepy one.
Lara Trump, thank you Lara, what a job you do. What a job you do. You know, Lara’s a specialist on a place called North Carolina, I will tell you. She lived there and she grew up there and they love her there, and Pennsylvania, that extends to Pennsylvania next door, and you said that we’re doing phenomenally there, right? So I think that’s right. She said win. I think they’re both wins, big wins. We got to be careful though, because the Pennsylvania deal with that decision, oh, you can count the ballots later on, and count them whenever you’d like. No. No. We have to be very, very careful with that, that causes a lot of problems.
I want to thank Kimberly Guilfoyle. Kimberly is fantastic, from day one. I’d watch her on The Five, and she always liked me, right from the beginning, so I always liked her. If they don’t like me, I never like them. It’s funny the way that works. But she was their big star, and she did great, and thank you very much Kimberly, I appreciate it very much.
And Tiffany, thank you for the job you do. She goes around from place to place. She just graduated from law school. She just graduated from Georgetown. She did a great job. Thank you, honey, thank you very much. And Michael, thank you very much. Thank you very much.
To all of our supporters here tonight, I really want to thank you from the bottom of our hearts. We’ve worked very hard in four years. We’ve been hit by fake, fake investigations, fake scandals, fake impeachments.
We’ve had so many things that, the witch hunt, I call it the witch hunt. And it turned out to be a phony witch hunt, and they should have known it the first day. They did know it the first day. But it’s the deep state, it’s whatever you want to call it, but it should have never happened. Think of it. They spied on our campaign. They got caught. They tried to take down a duly elected president of the United States. They got caught. And you know who knew all about it? Barack Hussein Obama and sleepy Joe Biden. They knew all about it. They knew all about it.
Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up.
And then I watch the fake news back there, look at all of them. Look at all of the fake news, isn’t that nice. It’s a lot of fake news. Then I watch the fake news saying, “You know, his attitude is a very tough attitude. He’s not very nice, he’s a very nasty person.” No no. We’re defending ourselves, and we’re defending all of these people that voted for us. With these fake …
And then what happens? It turns out to be that it was them that were guilty of all of these horrible crimes. Including the crime of treason, because when you try and take down a duly elected president, you know, it’s called treason, it’s called big stuff. It’s big stuff. So we’re going to see how that all works out. We’re going to see how that. But that’s another reason we want to go for a long time, frankly. Because you know what? We started something incredible. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. We then had to close it down for a period of time. We saved millions of lives. Remember the original estimate was 2.2 million people would die from the China plague, and they could have kept it in China. They didn’t get infected in the rest of China after Wuhan Province. But it came out to the world, it came out to Europe and the United States and 188 countries all over the world. And we can never forget that.
We signed a great trade deal with China, but it doesn’t mean so … The ink wasn’t dry, and all of a sudden this happened.
But the job we’ve done, when you see the numbers, and you’re going to hear the numbers because they’re coming out very soon, the job we’ve done has been an incredible job. We had to close it up. We saved millions of lives. We now opened it up. You saw what happened. 33.1%. The fastest in the history of our country. The fastest growth, the biggest growth in the history of our country.
But you’ve been there right from the beginning, we’ve all been together, and I’ll tell you what, we very much appreciate it. And think of how it could have been different, except I think in a way we would have been less popular. Somebody said, because they would have said just another presidency. This time, you know we had to fight for you. We had to fight. You understood it. You understood the hoax better than anybody. It was a hoax. The Russian hoax. And after spending $48 million, 18 angry Democrats, and smart people, vicious, they were vicious, they were smart. If they could find any little morsel.
And they went over taxes. And they went over everything you can go over. They spent $48 million, two and a half years. The Mueller investigation scam. And they come up, no collusion, there’s no collusion after all of that. Which makes me perhaps the most innocent man anywhere in the history of the United States.
Now a friend of mine called me up, very smart guy. He said, “I can’t imagine anybody could go through two and a half years, $48 million, 18 killers, some of whom worked for Hillary Clinton, right? Crooked Hillary. And it turned out they’re the ones dealing with Russia. What a disgrace.”
So let’s see what happens. It’s too bad it’s going so slowly. There’s plenty of info there, and I try and stay uninvolved. Someday I’m going to have to get involved, maybe. I try and stay uninvolved. Going too slowly. “No sir, we’d rather not do anything before the election.” Well they did it to me before, they did during, before, and after. These are bad people, Comey, the worst director in the history of the FBI. A crooked person.
Did you leak? Remember? “Chuck Grassley. Did you leak the information to the newspapers?” He choked when he heard Chuck Grassley from Iowa, great gentleman, great gentleman. He looked at that guy, he said, “Did you leak?” And he said, “Yes.” He choked. You know the guy choked like a dog, Comey. He leaked, he lied, he did a lot of things. You saw the report by Inspector General Horowitz, who by the way did a great report. That was a great report, Inspector General Horowitz, and I appreciate it. But you saw that on Comey. Comey should hang his head in disgrace.
But we had to go through all this stuff. Think if we didn’t have any of it.
We probably wouldn’t have done as well. It’s true. We might not have done as well. And we might not have these massive crowds, because you saw what was happening. You got it. We might not have had … So I just want to tell you, we appreciate you so much. We really do. We appreciate you so much.
And now we have to build on what we’ve done. Nobody has done what we’ve done. No administration has done, thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Wow, I love you too.
We love you. We love you.
I love you too.
We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you very much.
We love you. We love you.
Thank you.
We love you. We love you.
That’s really nice. You know, in the history of politics, nobody’s ever heard that expression before, it’s true. Look, Ronald Reagan, we liked Ronald Reagan, right, but nobody ever said, “We love you, We love you.” Nobody’s ever heard it before. Nobody’s ever heard it before. It’s an expression, true, you know they were covering it the other night, they looking back, oh, they want to find it so badly. They want to find somebody so badly. But it’s never been said before to the best of anyone’s knowledge.
… so badly, but it’s never been said before to the best of anyone’s knowledge, and we appreciate it. I’ll tell you what, when you hear that, I had a nice life. I had the greatest life. But you know what? I’m so happy. This was the greatest decision I ever made, because we have done so much good together. We’ve done it together. We couldn’t have done it without you, and we’ve done so much, from the biggest tax cuts in history, to regulation cuts, the biggest ever. We have cut regulations at a level that nobody believed. It would take 18 to 20 years to get a highway approved. We have it down to two. It’ll soon be down to one, and it may not get approved. It may be an environmental problem. It may be a safety problem, but it shouldn’t take 20 years, it shouldn’t take 19 years, 21 years. And by the time you get it approved, first of all, you start off as a young man on a highway project, and you end up in retirement, and then you get a rejection. ” We rejected three to two,” some board somewhere.
No, we’ve done a great job, and we’ve rebuilt our military. We just got a 91% approval from our veterans. The veterans just gave us a 91% approval, highest we’ve ever gotten. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our police, support our great military, protect your Second Amendment, which has gone if sleepy Joe Biden gets … Defend religious liberty, and ensure more products are proudly made with that beautiful, beautiful phrase, right? “Made in the USA.”
Next year we will be, and I mean this, I think we have such a foundation-
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
This group over here. They’re an activist group. Thank you very much. Thank you, fellas.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
It’s a great group. Thank you. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. So you had last year was the best year you ever had. Before that was the best year. You had three of them with me, and then we got hit with the plague, and then we went back to work. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. 33.1% last week. And if you look at the auto business, auto business, I don’t know what’s going on. It’s at a level that it’s never been at. What is that all about? What is that all about? You wouldn’t think, and this is during a pandemic.
We’re rounding the turn, by the way. They hate it when I say it, but we’re rounding the turn. They used to say, “Look at the way Europe’s doing.” Well, take a look at Europe. Take a look. And what we’ve done in terms of the economy, we went down less than any major country in the world, or any country. And now we’ve gone up far faster and far higher than any country in the world. It’s not even close. And it should be tougher because of the size, because we’re a big country.
We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months alone, which is another record. That’s another big record. We’ve never hired that many people that fast. While foreign nations are in a free fall, we’re creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world. A recent Gallup Poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under Obama and Biden. And if Biden and Kamala … You don’t have to say it “Kamala.” “Kamala.” If Biden and Kamala Harris, who’s further left by far than crazy Bernie Sanders, right, he’s considered a strict conservative compared to her. How the hell did he ever pick her, Mike? Where’s Mike. How did that ever happen? That turned out … I don’t think that’s going to be a good pick. You’re going to find out tomorrow.
By the way, she happens to be slightly against fracking. She’s still against fracking. Isn’t that amazing? Isn’t that amazing? Biden goes like, “I’m against …” For a year and a half, he’s running, running. Nobody gave him a chance because he never got more than 1% in prime time, right? 25 years ago, the guy never got 1%. And he never had what it took. He was a glad hander. Not a smart guy. Not a nice guy, either. By the way, not a nice guy. But he was, I used to call him 1% Joe, because he ran for president all the time and he never got more than 1%. Now he’s got half the intelligence he had 20 years ago and he wins. Politics is a strange business. A strange, very strange business. But if Biden and Harris and the radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send our nation into a very steep depression. That’s what’s going to happen.
This is the only man that I’ve ever seen run for office on the fact that he wants to give you the largest tax increase in the history of our country. No, that’s his space. The good news is, he has no idea what the hell he’s saying, so it doesn’t … He goes up. Here’s his line. “Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to give you the biggest tax increase in the history of our country. It will be $4 trillion.” They’re going to increase your taxes by $4 trillion. $4 trillion tax increase. That’s his campaign, and they’re going to put the money in the Green New Deal, which is conceived and designated by AOC plus three, right? AOC plus … This was their deal. I think they ever took an environmental course. Did they go to college, by the way? I don’t think they ever took a course on the environment.
But Biden wants to raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increase regulations. You know, the regulations may have been more important than even the big tax cuts that you got. The biggest ever. You got the biggest tax cuts ever, and you know it. You know it. You felt that in a very, very good place. You know where it is? Your wallet. You felt it in your wallet. They want to close down your factories, send your jobs overseas, destroy the suburbs. Women of the suburbs, please, okay? Please.
I wiped out a regulation that would have destroyed your home, to put it mildly. Would have destroyed your American dream. And Ben Carson is a great guy. I said, “Sir, why don’t we just do this? Why don’t we just sort of ease it up?” It’s a horrible regulation. What it does is a horrible thing, and everybody knows it. It would have destroyed the suburbs. I said, “Ben, let’s just cut it out. Let’s terminate it because there’s no negotiating here. Let’s just terminate it.” And I terminated it. And you know one thing I know about? The women of the suburbs, they want two things. They want their home. They want their family night, but they want safety, and they want security. And that’s what we provide.
And I think this will be like four years ago. Remember? “Donald Trump will do very poorly with women.” At the end of the evening when they’re all crying, and I remember they were crying. Remember? Martha Raddatz. Oh, she was very impartial. She was another one of my debate anchors. I had some real beauties, didn’t I? She was crying, and they all said we’re going to do badly with women. I’m going to do terribly with women. I said, “Why? What’s so bad? Tell me what’s so bad.” And at the end of the evening, “He’s done very well with women. What happened?” No. But this time we’re going to do even better, because we are providing safety and security. And for the suburban women, I mean, we’re saving the suburbs. This regulation was so horrible, what it does to the suburbs. It would have destroyed the suburbs as we knew them.
And I got to say this, 31% of the people living and moving to the suburbs are minority groups, African American, Asian American, Hispanic American. And they have a great American dream also, and then they want to live in the suburbs and they want to be proud, and they don’t want to live next to a project that somebody puts in because they play games with your zoning and other things. And all I can say is, for the women … I don’t even talk about the men in the suburbs. I don’t care about the men in the suburbs. I only care because they’re all saying … He’s going, “Oh, what about us?” I don’t worry about you.
But the women of the suburbs are going to vote for President Trump, because we love you, and we’re saving you a horrible, a horrible thing was going to happen, frankly, and it’s been happening for years, and it’s been a very bad situation. So we solved it. We terminated it. It is gone. Now, if they get in, if they should get in, you can take that regulation and quadruple it, just like they want to quadruple your taxes. You can quadruple it. So I think that’ll be good. I think we’re going to have a great … Women, that’s a pretty hard pitch, but that’s the way it is, right?
They want to dissolve your borders. We complete the wall in a very short period of time. We’re over 400 miles. Over 400 miles, and that’s right, Mexico is paying for the wall. You know, they like to say Mexico is, but we will have the wall completed very shortly. We’re over 400 miles right now. 400 miles, and we’re building 10 miles a week, and we now have the strongest numbers and the strongest border, Southern border that we’ve ever had. And you know what? We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally, and they have to come in through merit. We want people that can help us. We want people that can help us.
They want to terminate religious liberty, outlaw private healthcare. 400 … Think of this. Think of this. Private healthcare. You work so hard. You have 180 million people that have a great healthcare plan, that love it. Private plans, and they want to end it and put you on socialized medicine. I don’t think so. I don’t think you’re going to be too happy. I don’t think … “We have a cold, let’s go to the hospital and let’s wait for nine days to see a doctor.” They want to confiscate your guns, Second Amendment, and indoctrinate your children with hateful anti-American lies. So you’ll be happy that I just signed on the plane, that’s beautiful Air Force One, and it is a beauty, I have to admit an executive order to teach our nation students pro-American values. That will be taught. Sleepy joe Biden has vowed to abolish and eradicate the American oil and natural gas industries, and he’s pledged to ban fracking. And you saw that. For a year, more than that, he’d get on stage with all these crazy people, radical left people, and they were screaming who could ban it faster. He would say, “Yes, I’d been fracking. I am totally against fracking.” For a year, “I am against fracking.” I could play 100 clips. See the board? Where is the board. I spent a lot of money for that today. He’s going, for a year, “I am against fracking.” Then he lucks out because Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren doesn’t get out, so she takes votes away from crazy Bernie, right? On Super Tuesday. And he loses by a little bit on each state, and Bernie loses again. This poor guy. Crazy Bernie. But he’s running again in four years. Don’t worry about it.
No, he’s the best loser I’ve ever seen. He could lose … He lost with Hillary and they didn’t treat him too well. And then he lost, but Elizabeth Warren lost. If she would have gotten out, he would have had the votes. He would have won easily. So instead of a Crazy Bernie, I’m running against a sleepy guy, right? I’m running against a very sleepy guy. We can’t let the sleepy guy fool us, though, because he happens to be a corrupt politician, and they don’t want to write it. Biden’s energy plan will send every state into a crushing poverty situation, from Michigan to Minnesota. We’re going to win Minnesota because of Omar, and because we did a great job in stopping the riots in Minneapolis. The National Guard went in. They should have called them a lot sooner, like a week and a half. You wouldn’t have had half of your city burnt down. But Arizona, Pennsylvania. We’re doing great in Pennsylvania, by the way. I just got the word. I just got the word. We’re doing great in Pennsylvania. It’s looking good. I think you’re going to have a very exciting … You’re going to have a very exciting evening or day tomorrow, but evening in particular tomorrow.
You know, when people see it, I walk in, we do polls, and they do a poll. “We interviewed 73 people, and President Trump is down 57 points.” This is a poll. See, this is a poll. When you draw crowds like this. This is not the crowd of somebody that’s going to lose the state of Michigan. This is not. This is not. And look at this crowd. You can’t even see the end of it. You can’t. This is not the crowd of a second place finisher. Do you agree with that? No. No. This is our crowd, all together. We’re in this together and we’re doing it together. As long as I’m President, we will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on this planet. And for the first time, we are energy independent. You never heard that term before. We’re energy independent, and you know, we have very good relationships in different parts of the world. In some we help. We don’t have to, though. Now we don’t have to do … We do what we want, but we have some very good allies and partners that we’ll help them, but we don’t need their oil anymore. We have so much oil. We have more oil than anybody, okay? And it’s an incredible thing that it’s happened over the last few years. A lot of great things. And you’re paying, what, $2 a gallon for your gasoline? That’s okay.
You know what that’s like? That’s like a tax cut. That’s bigger than a tax cut. If Biden got in, you’d be paying $7, $8, $9. Then they’d say, “Get rid of your car. We’re going to build some more windmills. Kill all the birds.” Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars in countries that most of you have never even heard of, okay? A vote for Biden is a vote to eradicate your auto industry. Somehow I don’t think you want to do that in your particular state. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made, and now we have USMCA, which is a great deal. What a difference. No, you were sending all your jobs.
You know, 12 years ago, I was honored, believe it or not, the Man of the Year, and I was never thinking about doing this, the Man of the Year in Michigan. I’m still trying to figure out how that happened, and I got up and I said, “You know, you’re losing all your car business to Mexico, and Canada, too, by the way, and what are you doing? Why are you doing it?” And it was a whole big thing, became quite controversial as usual. But I was right, and it was probably the biggest reason that I ultimately ran for the presidency, because I saw how we were being ripped off. Not only the auto business, how we were being ripped off by every country of the world, friend and foe, on trade. And it just was something that was terrible.
Now with the USMCA, they said there’s no way I would ever pull it off. “There’s no way you get rid of NAFTA.” You know why? Because Mexico and Canada loved it. I said, “Well, if they love it, that means it can’t be any good, right?” They said, “Sh, we never thought of that one.” So I wouldn’t say they’re exactly thrilled with USMCA, but we’re fine with it. We like it. But he was sending your auto jobs, so many of them, to Mexico, and it was terrible.
Joe Biden supported China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which was the beginning of a disaster. It was good for China, but it was sure as hell bad for us. But you know, we won seven and a half billion dollars a little while ago, because we wouldn’t win anything. They had no respect for this country whatsoever, and now they know that if they don’t treat us right, we’ll pull out of that deal so fast. Now all of a sudden we’re winning all these cases, but we just won seven and a half billion dollars, which would have been impossible with a different president. You are so lucky I’ve agreed to be your president. Go out and vote for Trump.
The seven and a half billion dollars we won, that was nice. Michigan lost half of all of its auto manufacturing jobs, because that was like a Biden and his friends, that was a betrayal to you and to many other states. He supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have eliminated your auto industry totally. I came in and immediately canceled it. I canceled it. I was so happy to cancel the TPP. I ended the NAFTA disaster. Canceled that one too. I’ve been an activist. Despite the fact that every week I’m being hit on all different sides, ” Let’s impeach him for having a perfect conversation with the President of Ukraine.” They were the ones that had the bad conversations, including his son making $183,000 a month to sit on the board of a company. His son. Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? His first name is, “Where.” Where’s Hunter? Remember that? I brought that up. A t-shirt was made overnight. It was the hottest selling t-shirt of the year. “Where’s Hunter?”
You know where Hunter is? He’s buying vacuum cleaners, because he follows his father and he vacuums in money from every country that his father sees. No, seriously, Ukraine. His father was a judge of Russia, Ukraine, and China. President Obama entrusted him with those three countries. Those are the three beauties, right? Russia, Ukraine. So Russia, Moscow, the mayor of Moscow, his wife gives him three and a half million dollars, Hunter. Now he got dismissed from the military, was unemployed. His father becomes Vice President, and now all of a sudden he’s raking in money like you never saw. Now you tell me, is that honest? And then they say the big guy gets 10%. The big guy in some cases gets 50%.
And then the last one is he asked China for $10 million here. This is Biden. They asked for $10 million, yeah, $10 million for introductory purposes. That’s what … Introductory purposes. So he’s going to introduce people to who? To his father, for which he gets $10 million a year. I never saw anything like this. And the fake news refuses to report it, because they don’t want it in there, because it’s not good for them. How about the Moscow? Three and a half million dollars from the wife of the mayor of Moscow. Three and a half million dollars to, “Where’s Hunter?” You know, ” Where’s Hunter?” He’s at the bank depositing his money.
Now think of it. So he gets a billion and a half from China. He goes with his father on Air Force Two, a plane that the great Vice President Mike Pence uses too. Mike, do your kids follow you to the various countries, raking in money? No. He’s got the greatest people, the greatest children, the greatest family. I don’t think they have, right, where they’re flying airplanes for our military. No they don’t. They do it a little differently. They do it the old fashioned way. No. Mike Pence, it’s a holder. I always compare … I say, “Can you imagine with Mike Pence?” How good we have it with Mike Pence compared to that. No, it’s great.
How about the China, though? So the kid has no investment experience whatsoever. His father and him, they go into Air Force Two. In 10 minutes, like a 10-minute meeting, he walks out with a billion and a half dollars from China. They don’t do this for the biggest investment firms. I spoke to a friend of mine who’s one of the biggest guys on Wall Street. He said, “No, this is never done. They invest their own money. They don’t need people that are much dumber than them to invest their money. They invest their own money. They don’t do that.” Then he said, “Wow. That’s amazing. How long did it take him to get the money?” “About 10 minutes.” Walks out with a billion and a half dollars to invest, which is millions of dollars a year.
And the fake news and big tech, big tech is getting very dangerous, very dangerous, but it’s one of the reasons we have to win. They have me trending every day on Twitter, Twitter Trending. They make up these stories, phony stores. They put up stories or they’ll take an old story, make it as bad. “Number one trend,” like some really boring story. Trending is like, you got to be cool, right? To trend. I’m trending number one, number two, number three. Everyone, “Negative, negative, negative.” How the hell did I ever win this thing? It’s such a fix with these people. I’m always trending with these stories that are like, either they didn’t happen, or they make them different. And I don’t want to act like a complainer, but it’s a totally rigged deal. And everyone said four years ago, they said, “Sir, you can’t win.” “Why?” “Because big tech is against you.” I said, “What’s big tech?” I didn’t even know what the hell it was, right?
I learned fast, because I think we’re number one in the world now on social, so we learned very well. We got a lot of people. You know what? If I didn’t have … They say, “Don’t tweet.” Forget the tweet. It’s called social media. If we didn’t have social media, I’d have no voice. We wouldn’t be here. I have no choice. They say, “Gee, we wish she wouldn’t do so much tweeting.” I don’t do tweeting. What I do is social media. And without it, I don’t think we’d be here, because we’d have no voice. There’s no voice with these people. They’re dishonest people, mostly. Not in all cases, but Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who, what he’s done is he’s bled America dry.
In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because, thank you, I’m not a politician. Thank you very much. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because it was elected to fight for you, and I fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought for you before. Joe Biden is bought and paid for by big tech, big media, and powerful special interests. That’s why he takes in $300 million. They taken millions and millions of dollars for his crazy campaign, and he’s not going to win.
I really don’t believe he’s going to win, because of this. Take a look. This is going on all over the country. They have tractors, thousands of tractors. You ever see this? Thousands in Iowa. We’re winning an Iowa very big, by the way, just in case. Thousands of tractors in Iowa on big farms, thousands and thousands. They have thousands of boats, 6,000 boats out in the lake, out in the ocean. They have things nobody’s ever seen anything like it. So I think we’re going to have a very big day, but they say you can’t win without big tech. Well, we’re going to find out tomorrow. Wouldn’t that be wonderful? But they said the same thing, they said the same thing four years ago. The head of CNN said, “You can’t win without CNN.” I said, “Really?” And we won, so now we have to do it again. They’re totally crooked. They’re fake news. CNN is fake. CNN and the others are fake news. They own Biden. They control him, and they know that he will always do their bidding.
Every corrupt force in American life that betrayed you and hurt you is supporting Joe Biden. The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars that hurt our country so badly and hurt our young people so badly, they support Sleepy Joe Biden. The career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories and sent your jobs away, they support Biden. The open border lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs and gangs and crime, they support Biden. The far left Democrats that ruined our public schools, depleted our inner cities, defunded our police, and demeaned your sacred faith and values, they support Biden. The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, heritage, and heroes, they support Sleepy Joe Biden. Antifa, and the rioters, looters, Marxists, and left wing extremists, they all support Biden.
This election comes down to a very simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the corrupt and selfless political maniacs that you’re dealing with? Or do you want to be ruled by the American people? You’re supposed to be ruled by the American people. Do you want to be represented by a career politician who hates you, by an outsider? I mean, just take a look. These people, what they do and what they get away with, and I guess that’s the other reason. I mean, I was in politics and I see what’s been happening to our country. Our country was going to hell, and we’ve turned it. And we got waylaid by this plague that came in, but we’ve done a job like nobody else has ever done a job, and you understand it. And that’s why there’s so many of you here tonight, and that’s why all over the country, this is happening. All over the country. And even they’re just springing up by themselves. I’m not there. I don’t do this. I mean, if you look, they had something today I read where 100 miles of cars all with the flag, the American flag, the Trump, a whole Trump thing.
But do you want to be represented by a career politician who actually doesn’t like you, or by an outsider who will defend you like you have never been defended before? That’s what I’m doing. And it’s not easy, but there’s nothing I’ve ever enjoyed more in my life, because we are making so much progress. We have to now finish the progress. A vote for Biden is a vote to hand the keys of government over to people who don’t like you, don’t respect you, and who want to rob your children of their American dream. We have a great American dream. We’re not going to let it happen. We’re not going to let that happen. We’re going to keep our great American dream. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalists, and communists, and socialists, and wealthy, liberal hypocrites, and all of those that want to silence, censor, cancel, and punish you.
If you want your children to be safe, if you want your values to be honored, if you want your life to be treated with dignity and respect, then I am asking you to go to the poll tomorrow and vote, vote, vote. Remember what I said four years ago. I am your voice, and we will make America great again, and that’s what we’re doing. For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me and to stop you, because they know I don’t answer to them. I answer to you. That’s why we’re here. That’s why we’re here. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment. We will dethrone the failed political class, and we will drain the Washington swamp. And we will save that American dream. That beautiful, beautiful American dream.
This election is a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown, open up your state, governor, or a safe vaccine that ends up the pandemic and leads to the greatest economy in the history of the world. That’s where we’re going. We were there, and we’re going to get it back very quickly. And that’s going to bring our whole country together, because success brings it together, and it was happening. Before that plague came in, it was happening. People were calling me that you would least suspect, and it was all happening. And then we had to close it down and now build it up, and it’s building … It’s not a V. It’s a super V. It’s a super V.
We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. It will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the China plague once and for all. And whether we have the vaccine, great companies, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer, but with or without it, we are rounding the turn. Just remember that. You know, they don’t like it. They hate it when I say that we’re rounding the turn. And they always use Europe. “Oh, look at Europe. Look at Europe.” Well, take a look at Europe. Look at how they’re doing. And their economy is in tatters, and they have a lot of problems, and we don’t want that. We don’t want that. And that should have never happened. Should have never happened. That should have never been allowed to happen.
Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state. He’s looking you in the face and he’s locking you in your home while letting rioters, Antifa, the radical left, run down your streets, riot in your streets, burn down your stores, beat you over the head, and they’re allowed to do that. But you can’t go to your church. You can’t have dinner with your family, but you’re allowed to protest and riot. That’s why I call all of these protests, because we’re allowed to protest. You’re not allowed to meet and you’re not allowed to pray together, but you’re allowed to protest, so I call everything that we do a protest. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Easters, no Christmas, no 4th of July, no future for the youth. Other than that, it’s actually quite good.
A vote for Sleepy Joe Biden is a vote for lockdowns, lay offs, and misery. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, by the way, he would have been so far behind on a vaccine. He would have been so far behind. He did the swine flu. It was the joke of … They didn’t know what the hell they were doing. Now he’s saying, ” He should have acted faster.” Except when I did the ban on China, he said I shouldn’t do it for two and a half months. Then he admitted he wrong too, and then he runs, and now he’s saying I should have acted. I was so early in doing that ban, and we saved … And our biggest critic admits that we saved thousands and thousands of lives by doing it. Thousands of lives. And the ventilators that were made, and all of the things that we’ve done, and all of the medicines that are coming out. And here I am-
… all of the medicines that are coming out and here I am, right? Here I am. And I’m sure it had nothing to do with the medicine. I used to sort of give the medicine a little bit of credit, now I give it none, because I’m a perfect physical specimen, and I’m a very young person. I’m a very young person. I said that, of course, a little bit sarcastically. I said it a couple of weeks ago. I said, “No, no, I’m better than perfect. I mean, it was very quick, very easy because I’m in perfect physical shape and I’m a very young man,” and CNN went crazy, “He is not in great shape, and he is not a young…” But they went totally crazy. They are definitely, seriously losers.
Could you imagine if they had a cover of sleepy Joe for four years, their ratings would tank. That’s why football is not doing well. First of all, they’re not going to do well, basketball was down 71%, their finals. You know why? Because our people want to see people that respect our country, respect our anthem and respect our flag.
And football is way down. But you know, they’re down for that reason, but they’re also down because people would rather watch this stuff than watch football, because this is much tougher. They consider this to be much tougher actually. But can you imagine if they covered sleepy Joe, the ratings are phenomenal for all of these things. And then they cover sleepy Joe, their ratings would tank. They would come to see me, “Sir, I think it’s really important that you run again because we are losing our networks, our ratings are down the tubes.” The failing New York Times will definitely be out of business very quickly. They used to write nothing about me, now I average probably about four or five stories a day on the front page. Someday they’re going to give me a good one, watch. It might be tomorrow. We got to have a big win. We want a big win, not just a wave, we want a big win. Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates said about Biden that he was wrong on nearly every single major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades. He’s been wrong on everything. He’s been wrong on everything. But don’t believe me, because you’re Michigan, I spent all of this money on these beautiful, very large television sets. I call them beautiful, large screens. They’re large television sets. Let’s see it for yourself, okay. Go ahead.
Joe Biden. Joe Biden. Joe Biden.
Have you taken a cognitive test?
No, I haven’t taken a test. Why the hell would I take a test? Come on man. That’s like saying you, before you got on this program, you take a test where you’re taking cocaine or not? What do you think, huh? Are you a [inaudible 02:15:08].
By the way, that’s my little sister Valerie and I’m Jill’s husband. Oh no, you switched on me. That’s my wife, that’s my sister. They switched on me.
[inaudible 02:15:20] And if you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t black.
There is not a single solitary reason in the world why. Why, as I said, we shouldn’t be in a position that everybody, and that’s my wife, Jill, Hey Jilly, I’m Jill’s husband actually.
And Corn Pop was a bad dude. And he ran a bunch of bad boys. And I did, Jake. And back in those days you show how things have changed.
Play the radio, make sure the television, excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night. Make sure the kids hear words.
We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created by… you know the thing.
Because if you could take care [inaudible 02:16:08] quartermaster, you can sure as hell take care of running a department store thing, the second floor of the ladies department, you know what I mean?
Well, I’m sick and tired of smart guys.
You know, the rapidly rising in with, I don’t know… You been to caucus. No you haven’t. You’re a lying dog-faced pony soldier.
[inaudible 02:16:42] Why, why, why, why, why, why, why you’re getting nervous, man.
What kind of country we’re going to be? Four more years of George [inaudible 02:16:49] going to find ourselves in a position where, if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
Lie, after lie, after lie, after lie.
You know, we have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate.
And by the way, you know I sit on the stand and they get hot. I got hairy legs that turn blonde in the sun. And the kids used to come up and reach in the pool and rub my leg down so it was straight and then watch the hair come back up again, they’d look at it. So I learned about roaches. I learned about kids jumping on my lap and I’d love kids jumping on my lap.
Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have [inaudible 02:17:42] care.
We have to do at least several things. One, we have to depend on what the president’s going to do right now. And first of all, he has to tell, wait until the cases before anything happens with… Look exacerbating need for environmental justice… Sorry, there’s a bug.
Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t even need you to get me elected.
It’s a case where we cannot let this… We’ve never allowed any crisis from the civil war straight through to the pandemic of 17, all the way round 16, we have never, never let our democracy second fiddle. We can both have a democracy and elections, and at the same time, correct the public health.
Everywhere. I’ve been hearing all around the country. You’re trying your breast but it never feels like enough.
And here comes the train that he tried to make sure didn’t continue to run. That’s the community. But folks, look.
Anyway, I am very willing to let the American public judge my physical, as well as my mental fitness.
I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [inaudible 00:02:19:04].
Thank you very much. Look, you can’t let this happen to our country. Okay? We know what’s going on. You can’t let this. This was a total fluke. This was a total fluke. In prime time he didn’t work and now it’s really not working. What a disaster. I can’t believe this is even happening.
It puts much more pressure on me running against a guy like this. You lost to somebody that was good, can you imagine the concept of losing to this guy? You better get out there and vote tomorrow. I will be so angry I will never come back to Michigan, I’ll never come back. I’ll tell Japan to bring all those plants they held back.
Joining us tonight are some great warriors, great people. Congressman Bill Huizenga. Bill, where is Bill? Thank you very much. Everything good? You’re doing great. Thank you, Bill.
Congressional candidate, Peter Meijer. Peter, where’s Peter? Where’s Peter? Peter, you don’t have a good location. What happened to Peter? Peter’s here someplace and I hear he’s doing great.
House Speaker, Lee Chatfield. Lee? Thank you, Lee, great job you’re doing.
RNC Chair, I’ll tell you what a job she did. What a job she did. Ronna McDaniel. Where are you Ronna?. What a job she’s done. We won this great state with her leadership. Thank you, Ronna, very much, great job.
State GOP Chair, Laura Cox. Laura? Good job. Are we going to win? Otherwise, we will fire you so fast.
No, I think we’re going to have a tremendous victory in Michigan. I think we’re going to have a tremendous victory in all of these States they’re talking about, I see all of them. We’re going to have a tremendous evening, I hope so. For the good of our country, I hope so. You see the alternative, I’m sorry. But this is not just an alternative. We’re doing a great job, but we want to keep it going. Okay. We got to keep it going and we’re going to.
A very special person. Medal of Honor recipient, Jim McCloughan. Jim, where are you? Great job. He’s a very brave one. Thank you very much, Jim. Congratulations, that’s a great honor. Our highest honor.
Ted Nugent, and he is great. Where is Ted? Great job, Ted. He’s been from day one, right, Ted? Great job. Thank you very much for everything. I appreciate it. I love your sound. I love your music. And speaking of sound, music and other things, one of the big superstars of the world, Little Pimp. There he is. How’s it going? Do you want to come up and say something? Come on. Lil Pump, come on up here, come on up here. Does everyone know who he is? You know how big he is? Come on up here. It’s a nice hat. Come on, say something.
Hello everybody, how are you guys feeling? I’ve come here to say, Mr. President, I appreciate everything you’ve done for our country. You brought the troops home and you’re doing the right thing. MAGA 20, 20, 20, don’t forget that. Don’t forget that. And do not vote for sleepy Joe, at all.
Thank you/ That’s great, thank you very much, I appreciate it. That’s very nice. Big star, big star. That’s very impressive.
For 47 years, Joe Biden viciously attacked black Americans. He called young black men, super predators. To every black American, I am asking you to get out tomorrow and vote. This is your one and only chance. Thank you. Thank you, man. Thank you very much. To show Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, to jail you, to betray you and I’m fighting for you and you know what we’ve done? What we’ve done is really something that nobody thought could have happened. Other administrations, in particular, the last administration didn’t make even a move to try and get it done. We got criminal justice reform done. We got prison reform done. We got opportunities zones all done and complete. Tim Scott. We had funding for historically black colleges and universities completed and done, and it’s an honor to have done it. And I say it all the time, with the exception of Abraham Lincoln, no president has done as much for the black community as President Trump. And I’m very proud of that, very proud of that.
Thank you. It’s been an honor. It’s been an honor. Biden has vowed to increase refugee admissions from terrorist nations by over 700%, including from Syria, Somalia and Yemen. The Biden plan would overwhelm your communities and turn Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and the entire Midwest into a virtual refugee camp. I am keeping radical Islamic terrorists, if you don’t mind, the hell out of our country.
And if you take a look at France over the last week, they’re having a devastating problem. Another problem happened today, a very big problem in Europe and we don’t want it. We don’t want that problem. We don’t need it. We don’t want it. We invested $2.5 trillion in the United States military, biggest investment we’ve ever made. We are the envy of every country, militarily, Russia, China, North Korea. Everybody looks at what we have, nobody. Tanks, F35s, super fighter jets, tankers, submarines, missiles, rockets, hypersonic missiles, they go seven times faster than our fastest missile, fastest in the world. All of the things we’ve done in our nuclear plants and our nuclear capability is now at the highest level and it’s all in tippy top shape. And you just have to pray to God that we’d never used it. That’s all we say. Pray to God that we never use it.
We have the best in the world, all by the way, made in the USA and made a lot of it made right here in Michigan. A lot of it made right here in Michigan. We also passed VA veterans choice and veterans accountability, VA accountability. 91%. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, had been working on that for 52 years.
And instead of endless wars, we are now forging peace in the Middle East, and we’re getting it done. It’s going to happen very quickly, you watch. A vote for me and The Republican Party is a vote for the American dream. And remember, Abraham Lincoln was a proud member of The Republican Party, Abraham Lincoln.
In conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all, which is already taking place. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment. Which is under siege, but it’s 100% secure with us in this position, Mike, right? We will never touch it.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which goes into effect on January 1st, bigger than healthcare. Lower drug prices even more. We have signed and done something that’s never been done on prescription drug prices, favored nations. It will bring drug prices down 50, 60, 70%, like you’ve never seen before. And the drug companies, big pharma, does not exactly like your favorite president, I will tell you, but that’s okay. We broke a log jam. Favored nations, nobody thought we’d ever do that, we did. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. That’s starting very soon.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan.
Tomorrow, you have the power, with the power of your vote, but you have a power to save America, for this country will never be a socialist nation. We will never allow that to happen. Together we can finish the job and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. Nobody knew it was so deep and so vicious, but we have done some job. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers and get out and vote. Most important election perhaps in the history of our country. I never thought I’d say that. After what we went through four years ago, I said, “There’ll never be anything like that. Never be anything like what we went through.” And this is the most important election, maybe in the history of our country, from Midland to Mackinac, from Pontiac to Battle Creek and from Detroit to right here in Grand Rapids, I love Grand Rapids.
We inherit the legacy of American patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country, our families, and our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you, who helped build this country, together we will take back our country. We’re taking it back at a level that nobody has believed. We are taking it back and we are winning and we’re going to win tomorrow. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again. Our military, it’s never been like this. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Michigan. Go out and vote. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much and hello, Kenosha. It’s nice to be back. It’s nice to be back. We spent a little time with you, a little law and order. We brought law and order to Kenosha. Right? That’s what we want. And hello, Wisconsin. Big day, tomorrow, big, big day, big day. And I think we’re going to do very well in Wisconsin just like we did four years ago. And it’s an honor to be with you. Thank you.
USA! USA! USA! USA!
And this is a lot of people. This is a lot of people. See, you know what that means? That means we don’t have to pay for the microphones because they did a bad job. Tomorrow, we are going to win this state and we are going to win four more years in the White House. And with your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our police, support our great military, protect your second amendment. It’s under siege, but don’t worry about it, unless sleepy Joe got in, then you can forget about your second amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA.
Next year we will be, and you know, we’re going to be together next year. We’re going to be together for four more years and we’re going to be together forever because we’re doing things that nobody’s ever done and we’re doing them together. And it was my pleasure to be with you a number of months ago when you were in the news, right? You were in the news.
Turn it up! Turn it up! Turn it up! Turn it up!
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. And I hope you can hear. Can you hear it back there by the way?
No!
Yes, no?
No!
Hold it. Okay. That was the problem. You got to get the microphones fixed.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
What’s wrong here? How’s that? Is that getting better? And they was supposed to pay these people, right? No. Is that better? Come on. Okay. We’ll do this. We’ll have to improvise, you know? Sometimes you have to improvise. Okay. You ready? Which is better, this one or this one? Which one? This one. Is that better? Can you hear? This could be a very uncomfortable evening for me. All right. We’ll figure this out. Come on. Let’s go. Good job fellers. I’m always saying I want a perfect mic. Good job. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Is that better now?
Yes!
So this is the first time I’ve ever used a head held for an hour, two hours, three hours. No, we have one more tonight. After this, Grand Rapids. We finish up at Grand Rapids and we finished up there four years ago, and a little bit superstitious. Let’s do it the same way. We came here. We came to grand Rapids. Let’s keep it going. And I hope everyone can hear me now. Yes? Yeah? All the way back there. All the way back. Good. You let me know. You’re not shy. I was wondering. Everyone’s going, I thought they didn’t like me, I was saying. I’m not sure. I said, “What’s going on over here?” Right? Good. Thank you very much.
So under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%, fastest every recorded. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. That’s a record. And while foreign nations are in free fall, we are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they’re better off today than they were four years ago. That’s under the auspices of Barack Hussein and sleepy Joe Biden.
You’re not going to want to have Joe Biden. You know, see the media. Look at all the media back there. If they had to cover him for two months, they’d say, “We have to bring the President back. We have to bring Trump back.” They would be out of business. They would be out of business. If Biden, Harris and the radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send your nation, this wonderful nation, into a depression. This is the only guy I’ve ever seen who runs by saying, “We will,” he doesn’t say it like that. He goes, “We will.” “We will raise your taxes.” I never heard that before. You know, I’ve covered politicians. I’ve been friends with politicians. I’ve been enemies also, but I’ve never seen somebody saying we will raise your taxes. They want to give you the largest tax increase in the history of our country, and we can’t let that happen. We can’t let that happen.
So get out and vote. Tomorrow will be, I think, will be the most important election in the history of our country, and I never thought I’d say that. I never thought I’d say it. So get out and vote. Sleepy Joe Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increase your regulations, shut down your farms, close down your factories… How’s he doing so far? Send your jobs overseas, they started booing him. I don’t know. Is this guy really thinking about, I mean, could he really win? Are we serious about this? What the hell is going on? Is he serious? Guy has no clue. He’s shot. Some people are shot. He’s shot. Did you see him today with the aviators, right, the glasses, right? Came on very tough. He’s very agitated. You know, it’s like sort of like going crazy. Destroy the suburbs, dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private healthcare, confiscate your guns. Second amendment is in deep trouble. Not with me it’s not. You notice it hasn’t been touched. Right? It hasn’t been touched. You think that was easy? It wasn’t easy. And indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies.
So I just signed an executive order to teach our students pro-American values, pro-American values. Biden has vowed to abolish the American oil and natural gas industries and ban fracking. Now, from your standpoint, you don’t like it because you don’t want energy costs going up, right? That’s what he’d do. Biden’s energy ban will send every state into crushing poverty from Wisconsin to Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania. As long as I am President, we’ll remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. And we are right now. And we will remain energy independent. You know, we’re energy independent. We don’t need foreign nations anymore, but we have good relationships in the Middle East.
You know where we’re doing peace in the Middle East. Do you believe it? No blood in the sand, peace in the Middle East. Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure on foreign Wars. You know what they call them? The endless foreign wars, countries that many of you have never heard about. What?
Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! We love you! We love you! We love you!
I don’t know. I think we’re doing fine with this mic, right? I don’t want to put this guy under pressure. You’re on stage. You got 27,000 people watching. Don’t get nervous. Oh, he’s not nervous. He’s a professional. I’ll give you the name of his company. Never use that company. No, he’s fine. Don’t worry about it. This is okay. This isn’t. Oh, you want to just put it in there? Well, is it the same mic as the other one? It’s a different mic. That means that one’s supposed to be better, right? That’s not good. All right. Okay. We’ll take that sucker out of there. Right? Congratulations. Go ahead. Do you want to put it in? How’s he doing? He’s doing a good job, right? Come on.
We love you! We love you! We love you!
[inaudible 00:12:08] Now we’re back where we started. See? The whole deal. We’re right back where we started. I take the mic out. Okay. Okay. You know what? And then I won’t pay the bill of the company that does this crazy microphone. And they’ll do a story, “Trump is a horrible human being. He doesn’t pay bills.” No, I don’t like to pay bills when people do a bad job. You don’t either. But I don’t know. They look like nice people. They come from Kenosha. So I’m going to pay the bill anyway. What the hell? You know? Well, at least I proved one thing. You know, did you ever see where I lift the glass of water and I wear the red tie. They’re sort of expensive. And you know, you don’t like to spill water on the red tie. Right? So sometimes I’ll use two hands because I want to catch the water, because I want to save the time because I’m basically cheap, you know? So I’ll take the water and I’ll go like this, and I’ll take a little sip and they’ll say, “There’s something wrong with him.” No, I’m trying to save.
So I go like this. So now, by holding a mic all night long like this, you’re going to say, “Well, there’s nothing wrong with that right hand or left hand.” No, did you ever hear that? There’s something wrong. He can’t lift a glass of water. No, I have no problem with it. Some day I may, like Joe, but I don’t have any problem.
Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Think of it. You lost half of your manufacturing jobs after the betrayals. These were betrayals by a lot of people and Biden was one of them. He’s a corrupt politician and he sold out Wisconsin to China. But he’s a corrupt politician and these people never told you that, and they don’t want to write about it, and big tech doesn’t want to talk about it, and it’s off bounds, and they’re not allowed to talk, and we have suppression. We have suppression. This is a media suppression, the likes of which nobody has ever seen. And if you take a look, you’ve never seen anything like it… The last famous last words. Right? But no, nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
You know, his son walks in. His son had no job. He left the military. Unfortunately, it wasn’t good. And then what happens is the father becomes Vice President, and this kid becomes like a human vacuum cleaner. He follows the father into countries. “Dad, who are you going to today?” “Well, let’s go to China.” And he’s a vacuum cleaner. Follows the father, takes in money. Right? It’s terrible. They give him one and a half billion dollars, one and a half billion. Think of it, one and a half billion dollars, and he gets fees off that, millions of dollars a year. There’s only one problem. He has no experience investing money. They give him the money. They gave him the money after 10 minutes. I think our Congress has to take a look at that. What do you think, fellas? I think you’re going to have to look at it.
Can you imagine? You know, I have a lot of my kids here tonight. Could you imagine if my kids said, “Yeah, dad, I got a billion and a half dollars from China.” Oh, I don’t think they’d want to write about that, the fake news. Do you think they’d write about that? Then he gets three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife. Right? What did he get that for? Remember I asked that at the debate, the first debate, I said it. Chris Wallace thought it was an inappropriate question. Really? I think. You think? Chris Wallace. No, I must tell you. I think Kristen did a better job, Kristen Welker. Right? And I don’t mean she was perfect. Actually, some people said she wasn’t really very nice. I thought she was nice. Relatively speaking, she was great for what I got.
How about the one, Savannah Guthrie. You see that one? That was another beautiful. Live at nine o’clock, she’s jumping out of a chair. She’s like going crazy. But we all do well. You know, I don’t get questions like he gets. He gets, “Sir, what kind of ice cream are you eating?” Did you see that? They never asked me questions like that.
In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt, and really it’s like corrupt, corrupt political establishment. Right? And you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first, finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. Right? If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, and nobody has ever fought harder for you than I am. I will tell you. Nobody.
When the violent mob came to Kenosha, Biden opposed sending in the National Guard. Of course you remember this, right? He didn’t want to send in the Guard. He thought it was terrible to send in the Guard. And we sent in the Guard and we saved Kenosha. We saved Kenosha. I said, “You know, I think Kenosha is going to like me.” We did a good job. I wish they sent them in a little bit earlier. Right? If we had them in a little bit earlier, but that’s okay. That’s okay. But we sent in and how good did the Guard do though? Did we do the job? Did they do the job?
Biden and Kamala, does anybody know who Kamala is? This wonderful woman, she wants to be your first female president. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. You know, that’s a good reason not to vote for sleepy Joe, too. Right? You don’t want to do that. We all want to see that happen someday, but we don’t want this to be the one. Right. But they’re waging war on our police. You know that. We have a lot of police here tonight. I recognize it because I went and I met all of the police. I met a lot of great police, federal police. I’ve met the whole group and you have great police.
Back the blue! Back the blue! Back the blue! Back the blue!
I agree with that. But I stand with the heroes of law enforcement and I was honored to be endorsed by Kenosha County Sheriff, David Beth. Thank you, David, wherever you may be. Where’s David? Thank you, David. That was so nice. That was so nice. They like you out there, David. That’s very good. Appreciate it, David. Thank you very much. And as I’m sure you’ve heard, Biden’s far left supporters are threatening to loot and riot tomorrow if they don’t get their way, if they don’t get their way. Are we-
… if they don’t get their way, if they don’t get their way. Are we all ready, David? Everybody ready? If they know we’re ready and if they know we’re not playing games, they won’t even be here. They won’t show up. It’s like I brought an old law into existence when I saw them going around all over the country, knocking down statues and monuments. And we signed, we brought it in, and I signed it, updated it, signed it 10 years in prison if you knocked down a statue or monument. And you don’t see it anymore. They look and they say, “Oh, we’d like to knock that one down, but you know what, 10 years is too much, darling. Let’s leave now.” This is yet more evidence why the radical left cannot be trusted with power. We strongly condemn political violence. We condemn it and we condemn it strongly.
Biden must tell his supporters. He doesn’t really have supporters, let’s face it. He doesn’t have supporters. They got shot. He doesn’t have. There’s an ideology that has supporters and he’s just the vessel. He happened to be the one that got through, because Elizabeth Warren instead of getting out like she should have and letting Bernie take it. Bernie, I’ve got to tell you, he is a great loser. He really is. He loses. It happened with Hillary and it had happened with Elizabeth Warren. What she did was incredible. That’s a similar philosophy. But Biden ended up being there. Biden ended up being there and that’s the way it is, and he has to tell his supporters. And I think you’re going to see something. Look at the people over here. They go, “Oh, hello.” Can you actually hear this? Can you hear this?
Because this is the worst microphone I’ve ever used in my life. Can you actually hear me over there? They can. In the back, all the way back. That’s good. Thank you. I can’t believe it. It sounds terrible to me. It doesn’t sound great, right? To me, it doesn’t sound great. It’s all right. Good. You know what? Keep saying it. That Bill, he says, “Don’t pay him. Don’t pay him.” Did you hear that, Johnny? Don’t pay the damn bill, would you please? A piece of garbage they gave me. It’s not even the first rate mic. The good one, it’s put to rest. We put it the rest. The good one, we put the rest. All right, don’t pay him. But as President, I will ensure peace and order in this country. We are going to have peace and order. And you’re going to have a day tomorrow the likes of which I think people haven’t seen in a long time, a long time. You’re going to have a red way. It’s going to be a beautiful sight.
And you know what? We actually have a country that outside of a radical group, and this is a radical group, but we have a country that’s very well united. When you look at a group of people like this, it’s incredible. And I go from here, I go I told you, Grand Rapids. They say they have 40,000, 50,000 people in Grand Rapids. Last night in Florida, we had 45,000 people. No problem. Everybody’s in love. Everybody loves our country. It’s a beautiful thing. I’m telling you, there’s a lot of unity. We just don’t complain. We don’t complain, we just go out and do what we have to do. But you know, when we were having that incredible run, we were doing the best, and now we’re almost at that same point, and we’ll be there soon. But our country was uniting. We were getting calls. We had the best employment numbers ever African American, Asian American, Hispanic American. And we were getting calls like, “Maybe it’s time we get together.:
Because success brings people together. Success brings people together, and you’re going to see that happening, because we’re having numbers the likes of which we’ve never had before. Think of it, 33.1%. Nobody’s ever had that. The highest was 1952, and it was less than half of that number. So rioting, looting, and arson will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I’m just telling you that right now. I’m telling you that right now, that if people are, I hate to see where they put boards up on a window, this shouldn’t be that, it shouldn’t be that, but we are a country of law and order. We have to be. We are. And do you notice, I hate to say it, but it’s true, these are Democrat mayors and governors, there are Democrat run cities and states. They’re the ones, if you look at New York and Chicago, and how about Portland, which is anarchists? We could solve that problem.
We tell the Governor, “You want us to solve the problem? We solve it in 30 minutes.” We solved it in Seattle. We went in, we were going to go in the morning, we announced we’re going in, in the morning, and they just raised their hands and they left the night before. And we did a great job in Minneapolis. We did a great job. We’re going to win Minnesota for two reasons. We did a great job. Now, they could have called. They could have let us do it a week and a half early. That would have been nice, so that the announcer, remember the anchor, you looked over, he says, “This is a peaceful protest.”
[ inaudible 00:00:24:36].
Thank you. What a group, what a group. What a group. I’ve gotten to know this state very well. You surprised. You’re the one that put us over the top, you know that, right? Remember? We were waiting for Pennsylvania, four years ago, we’re waiting for Pennsylvania. They didn’t want to call it. Oh, they were going crazy, these people. They were crying. They didn’t know what the hell was happening. They said, “This will be a very short evening for Donald Trump.” Four years ago, right? And they were just, oh, they were looking forward. Remember the woman crying in the convention center, that beautiful? Remember the woman, she was going crazy, glasses, her head’s going? I wonder where she is right now. They put her away. No, no. This was not a person that I was easily going to convince to be on my side I think. She was going crazy. But remember at the beginning, they show everyone’s happy, everyone’s thrilled? They spent a fortune.
It was one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever seen in terms of a stage. They had it shaped like the United States. Hello, Becca. Are you okay? But that was a hell of an evening. And this evening is going to be, I’m telling you, tomorrow, it’s going to be, I can’t say bigger. Was there ever anything as big? I’ll tell you, the election is more important, but the evening will be as good or almost as good. And that’s okay too. But that was a first, right? That was a first. That was some evening. That was some evening. “He won Florida. He won Ohio. He won it all.”
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And because of the microphone, we are giving you back half of your admission price. But considering that you paid nothing, I’m sorry, you’re getting nothing. The price is right. Nah, it’s fine. But wasn’t that something though where they say, the evening begins and they say, “This is going to be very quick.” You know what happened? They did exit polls and a lot of the people said, “None of your business.” “Oh, who did you vote for?” “None of your business.” That meant Trump. And they did 44%. You know that, 44% of the people said none of your business? And that meant Trump. They call it the none of your business vote. But almost all of them, I think maybe all of them, were Trump so they didn’t count him. So they said, “Oh, this is going to be a blowout tonight.” But they didn’t realize.
These pollsters haven’t been doing so good with me, and we blew it out. It was incredible. It started with Ohio. Remember? We’re going to do great in Ohio tomorrow too, by the way. Great place. “Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. That’s a big state.” I heard for a year while we were doing this, “You cannot win unless you win the state of Ohio.” Every night they did it. And then all of a sudden poll numbers started coming out that I was leading in Ohio. But anyway, they thought I was going to win by one point. I won by eight. They said, “He won Ohio. He won by eight points. What the hell is going on here? That’s a lot.” And then they said, “Oh no. Oh no, please don’t tell me this. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. No, no, no, no. Please, please, please, please.” Remember Martha Raddatz, ABC? “Oh my God. Oh please. Please don’t tell me this. Oh no, I’m a neutral. I’m very neutral. I don’t do it. Please.”
Martha, you’re neutral? Please, the tears, wipe them away quickly. No. Then we won Florida. Then we won Georgia. Then we won South Carolina. Then we won the firewall, was remember North Carolina? That’s their firewall. We were going to win North Carolina. They put so much money into North Carolina, but we had an asset from North Carolina named Lara. Lara, Lara Trump, married to married to the legendary Eric Trump. Where are you? Are you two there? We had a big asset there, Lara Trump. And she knew that area so well and they loved her so much. They loved her so much. And they just had another baby and they named the baby Carolina. They named the baby Carolina. And I tell you though, but I said, “We have to give South Carolina some credit too for that.”
Bring them up. Bring them up.
Bring them up. Come on up. Get over here. Come on. Bring them up. Bring them up. Great. Come on, come on, Lara. This one, they love her in North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania. And they love her in Wisconsin too. Here you go.
Oh my God. I’m done now apparently. Wisconsin, who here is ready for four more years? A vote for Donald Trump is a vote for freedom. A vote for Donald Trump is a vote for the future. A vote for Donald Trump is a vote for God. And a vote for Donald Trump is a vote for America. How do you guys feel? Are we going to win Wisconsin? Let’s go do this a second time. Thank you.
Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you, honey. Thanks, Eric. Thanks, sweetheart. They’re doing a good job. They’re working hard, I’ll tell you. They’re all working hard. They’re all working hard. We have a whole group of family. This is like a family reunion tonight. Well, this is now the big time, because tomorrow’s the big day and we have one more stop. Actually, I did five today, but I could say I did six, because in Miami we finished at close to two o’clock in the morning. So let’s add that sixth today after Grand Rapids. Joe Biden is bought and paid for by big tech, big media, and powerful special interests. You know that. They own him, they control him, and they know he will always do their bidding. And when he raises $300 million for this campaign in a short period of time ask him, what deals did you have to make? Because I would be the greatest fundraiser of all time. I can call the Wall Street guys, I know them all I could say, ” Send me $25 million immediately, please.” “Yes, sir, Mr. President. I will.”
But once you do that, you’re totally compromised. You can’t do anything properly once you do that. And I say, “I don’t want to do that.” And we did very well with the fundraising stuff, but a lot of it came in small donations. First time a Republican has ever raised a lot of money with small donations. $61 average or something like that. Every corrupt force in American life has betrayed you and hurt you, and they’re all supported by Joe Biden. The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they’re supported by Sleepy Joe Biden. The career politicians that offshored your industries. And you had plenty off shore, and decimated your factories, they support Joe Biden. The open borders lobbyists, all the people that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs, gangs, and crime, and you know a lot about that, they support Joe Biden. The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, heritage, and heroes, they support Joe Biden. That’s cancel culture. We don’t believe in cancel culture, do we?
Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left-wing extremists, they all support Joe Biden. This election comes down to a simple choice, do you want to be ruled by the corrupt and selfish political class or do you want to be governed by the American people? That’s what it’s all about. It’s the American people. They’ve taken that away. They’ve taken it away, and what’s going on with big tech and what’s going on with the media, nobody has ever seen anything like it. There’s never been anything like it. Nobody has seen anything like it, where you can’t have a scandal if there’s nothing written about it. It’s a pretty [inaudible 00:34:08]. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist and communists and socialists and wealthy liberal hypocrites, hypocrites who want to silence, censor, cancel, and punish you. These are real, real trouble.
If you want your children to be safe, if you want your values to be respected, if you want to be just treated with dignity and respect, then I am asking you tomorrow to go out and vote for your all time favorite President, because we still have work to do.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you. Remember what I said four years ago, I am your voice and we will all together make America great again. That’s what we’re doing. It’s what we’ve done. For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me. Can you imagine if they didn’t do the hoax. The Russia hoax? Russia, Russia, Russia. How about Schiff getting up the other day, the laptop from hell, right? Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter here? Where’s Hunter? Oh, he’s in a country. I see, his father just left the country. He’s going to scam them for a couple of bucks. Where is Hunter? No, but he’s got the laptop from hell and Schiff got up with the watermelon head, like I want a watermelon, and he goes, “This was produced by Russia.” These people are crazy, I tell you. Ay yi yi, what a crazy bunch. But they know I don’t answer to them, I answer to you. It’s true.
Look, I didn’t need this. I didn’t need this. I had a very nice life. I had a very nice life, but you know what? It’s the greatest thing I ever did, because no administration, no President in the first three and a half years, the biggest tax cut in history, the biggest regulation cuts, rebuilding our military, look at what we’ve done, look at what we’ve done. Our vets just gave a 91% approval rating. The highest in history, the highest in history. No, look at what we’ve done. Space Force, I never even talked about Space Force. I never talked. I realized we needed it after I was in office. I looked, I saw. I saw a rush. I saw China. I said, “We need Space Force.” First time in 74 years, new one, right? A new one, right, Congressman? We did a great job on it. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment, we will dethrone the failed political class, we will drain the Washington swamp, and we will save the American dream, a dream for your children, your grandchildren, a dream for your children and your grandchildren.
We have the energy and the people to prove the corrupt media wrong. And that’s what we have, we have an energy like no movement has ever had in this country. Somebody would go in and do well in New Hampshire, as an example. I’m thinking about one man, because I have a lot of respect for him, he did well. Came in second in a primary and he became famous for many years. What we did is we won all the primaries, we won everything, and then we won the Presidency. No, there’s never been a movement like this. And now they go after us illegally. They spied on our campaign.
Now they go after us illegally, they spied on our campaign. Our campaign, it’s not my … our campaign. They tried to take out a duly elected President of the United States and we caught them, and we caught them and let’s see what happens to them. And you know who was a part of it? Barack Hussein Obama.
Boo!
And sleepy Joe Biden and plenty of others, like Comey, et cetera, but plenty of others, but they were a part of it. So now we’ll see what happens, right? We’re going to see, we’re going to see what happens. So, but you have to get out and vote, this is the biggest thing, get out and vote. By the way, who’s already voted? All right, that’s not … but we have a tendency to vote on election day, republicans. So let me ask you, who is planning to vote tomorrow? Very important, very important. Is anybody planning to vote for sleepy Joe Biden, please raise your hand? Does anybody have the courage? Raise your hand. No, all right, yeah, get out and vote. Well, that’s good, that’s a lot of people. So a lot of you vote a little bit early then? Do you trust the ballot system? Do you do early voting or do you do the ballot? Early, I like early better, early as good. Early is good, ballot is not good. We got a very horrible, horrible ruling from the Supreme Court of the United States, a ruling that puts our country in danger, actually. On Pennsylvania, they have so much time to do this thing. Oh, let them put their votes in and give them plenty of time. We have a date, it’s called November 3rd. We don’t have a date that says, many days later. We don’t have a date that says you’re allowed to go and start putting your vote in later. And we can tabulate it later, take your time. The whole world is waiting to find out and there’s great danger in that, number one, there’s danger that there’s a lot of shenanigans that go on from that time forth. There’s a lot of shenanigans. And then there’s a lot of bad things that can happen with the streets. I mean, you’re going to have a population that’s going to be very, very angry, and you just can’t do that. That is such a dangerous decision. That is such a disappointment when I heard that decision. That’s a terrible decision, just you go take a look at it. And I know you people are taking a look at it, but there’s not a decision that I’ve ever heard of like that.
Where people … if you want to put your ballot in, and if you wanted to … you go and you put it into a three or four weeks early. You don’t go and put your … he said, you had a whole year, you had a lot of time. You had a lot of time. So they say, “Oh, this is so terrible.” They gave them extra time and then all the time. So now we’re going to be all waiting around because Pennsylvania … we’re going to win Pennsylvania, it’s a great state. But you know it’s in like you, it’s in a total shutdown, they shut it down. The governor is a Democrat, he shut it down. It’ll probably open on the 4th. It’ll open … He’ll announce, “Ladies and gentlemen now that the election’s over, we’re going to open it up.” Right? But you can’t do that. That’s a very, very dangerous decision by the Supreme Court. I guess it was a political decision. I don’t know what it was. I don’t know what they were thinking.
And you know what, maybe I should, maybe I shouldn’t be speaking this way. I’m very disappointed on behalf of this country that a thing like this could happen. Because we could be waiting for weeks before we ever find out what’s going on. The whole world is waiting for this decision. It’s a very sad, it’s a very sad thing. And hopefully it’s going to be changed. Hopefully, their wisdom … and they have wisdom. Hopefully their wisdom will prevail and they’ll do something. And lawyers will be going in and there’ll be fighting. But people, in fact, it’s all over television tonight. I’m coming from place to place, and the good thing about Air Force One, it’s got more televisions then any hotel room in the world, okay? You have him on the floors you have on the ceilings, you have them all over.
And you see the comments that are being made about the decision. And some of the pros are saying, this is a very dangerous decision for our country because so many things, I mean, they’re going to say, well, how many votes short are we? We need 6,000 votes. Well, let’s take 6,000 of these. We’ll put them over here. Let’s take 6,000 of these. It’s going to be cheating. It’s going to be cheating. It’s like, they’re putting these people … and you know what, we don’t consider the people that have been running elections in Philadelphia to be very honest. We’ve had a lot of problems with Philadelphia. So that’s the story and hopefully that’ll be changed. And I’m sure the people would say, “Oh, you shouldn’t speak that way about the Supreme Court.” We’ve had so many bad decisions out of the Supreme Court that I will speak that way and that’s the way it is.
This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown and a safe vaccine that ends … and by the way, we’re rounding the turn anyway, but we have great vaccines. We have great vaccines coming. We have great vaccines coming and it’s a lot of good things are happening. And when you look at the therapeutics, excuse me, here I am. I’m right here. No, I don’t think the therapeutic helped me. I don’t think I needed it. I’m glad I got it, right? Regeneron, we’re going to make it available free to anybody that needs it. We’re making it available free to anybody that needs it, free. But I’ll tell you what, I’m sure I didn’t because I’m a perfect physical specimen. And I am considered very, very young. I’m considered young for my age. No, I’m a perfect specimen. I’m in perfect shape. So I’m sure I would have thrown it away.
But no, but I had it and the next morning I was not feeling good at all, I tell you. The doctor said, “Sir, I hate to say it. You’ve just tested positive.” I said, “Doc,” Sean, a great doctor, White House doctor. I said, “Sean, tell me, what does that mean? Tested positive for what?” “Sir you tested positive for the China plague.” No, he used it much nicer, he said, “COVID.” He said, “COVID.” It’s got about 37 names, you know that we could name it. I always like to have a China in there because I like to be accurate. But, but he said, “Sir, you have tested positive for COVID.” I said, “I’m in the middle of the campaign, I can’t be positive for COVID.” And so, anyway, so I was, and I didn’t feel too good. And the First Lady had it, at least now you know that all those rumors is that she lives in Virginia separate, I mean, at least now you know she lives in the White House. Because she got it probably from me or whatever, I don’t know, what the hell?
Do you ever hear, the First Lady lives in Virginia in a beautiful house over a river or something. No, no, she lives … but at least that. I know people love the First Lady, they love the First Lady. It’s true. They love the First Lady, it’s true, they love her. She’s doing a good job. They love … the whole family back there, they love that family back there. Great family, hi, Tiffany. So, Melania has it but she knocked it out pretty good. And I did a great job. I was surrounded by these doctors, 12 doctors, I’ve told this story, each one was a specialist. Johns Hopkins, Walter Reed Medical Center is incredible, that’s our military center, it’s incredible. And I’m surrounded, right? I’m just surrounded by these brilliant doctors. One thing when you’re president, you get a lot of doctors. And each doctor grabbed a different part of my body. And I said, “I don’t like this at all.”
But they told me about this one thing. And I said, “I really do, I like it. I really …” but it was very, a little bit early. What we’ve done with getting it through the FDA has been incredible. Biden wouldn’t have this stuff done for years. Well, he had a chance with this swine flu and totally blew it, right? It was a disaster. It was a disaster. Anyway, so I wake up the next morning and I’m telling you, I felt like Superman. I wanted to get out. I said, “Give me another trade deal to renegotiate that these clowns have screwed up. Gave me a trade deal to renegotiate. And where am I supposed to be?” “Well, sir, could you take it easy for a couple of days?” And people are sort of amazed. I’ve done these things, I mean, I do them. These are not easy to do, especially when you have no damn microphone. I mean, I’m working harder on this one than I have on all six that I did today. This is the hardest one. Because I have a microphone that was obviously meant for congressmen and senators, not for a president.
So it’s a little bit off, but that’s okay. You have to learn how to … Isn’t that funny when he put it back in here and handed it to me, I said, “But that’s the way we started.” I thought that was better. Nobody got that, only this front row got that one. I thought that was very clever, actually. But then he came up to me, the doctor, Sean, he said, “Sir, I’m sorry to inform you that your son, Barron has tested positive.” Again, I said brilliantly, “For what?” He said, “For COVID.” I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” “Oh no, he’ll be okay, sir, he’ll be okay.” I said, “It’s terrible.” But he’s young and he’s strong and he’s very tall. Have you ever seen … I say, “Hi, Barron.” 14 years old, he’s very tall. He’s definitely tall and he’s strong, but he’s young. And I said, “That’s terrible.” He said, “No, he’ll be okay, sir, he’ll be okay.” And I said, “Well, I hope.” Like 12 minutes later I say, “How’s Barron doing Doctor?” “Sir, he’s 100% now, he’s …” Get your kids back to school, okay. Right, get them back to school. Yeah, all right. So we’re going to mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. It’s going to be coming out very soon and we will quickly eradicate the virus. Wipe out the China plague once and for all, get it the hell out of here. We will never forget either. We will not forget. That was not good. You know, we made a great trade deal with China as you know very well. But you know the ink wasn’t dry before we got this and no good, no good. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state, locking you in your home while your far left anarchists are allowed to roam the streets, burn down your cities, hit people over the head. They’re allowed to do that. That’s why I always call all of these rallies, protests. These are not rallies anymore. Because you’re allowed to have a protest, you can’t have a rally and you can’t go to church.
You’re not allowed to go to church, but you’re allowed to burn down the cities with a protest. So we always call these friendly protests. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no Easter, no 4th of July, and no future. Other than that, it’s really not a bad way to go. A vote for sleepy Joe Biden is a vote for lockdowns, layoffs, misery, and no fracking. How about the guy, no fracking for over a year and a half. “There will be no fracking.” He goes to Pennsylvania, “Absolutely, we’ll frack.” Okay, and these guys don’t do anything about it. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then you have no choice but to cast your ballot for a gentleman named, Donald J. Trump. And as I said, you have to remember this, because during the debate, the debate was good … thank you, thank you very … thank you very much. Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you very much.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you, everybody. It’s a great honor to be with you. I really did, during the Kenosha disaster, I really got to be friendly with a lot of people up here. Long before that because we’ve had so many different people that we deal with. You have great people, we’re going to introduce you to a few of them, but you have great people here. But I really got to know you during that problem. That potential crisis that we put out very, very swiftly once we got called and it’s great. You’re great people. You built the country, you’re great people. Joe Biden, and as I said, he ran the H1NI, he called it N1H1, he couldn’t get it right. He still does, he can’t get it right. I said, “Joe, H comes before N, it’s easy to remember.”
H1N1, swine flu. And he failed horribly and he was a laughingstock all over Washington. As you remember, as his chief of staff, I don’t know why this guy said it, but he made the worst statements. He said, “This guy, we have no idea what we’re doing.” Now, all of a sudden he’s coming and he’s … He was the one that said, I shouldn’t close it down to China, heavily infected China, right? You remember that mess? Anyway, now he runs, he said, “I should have closed it sooner.” It’s really disgraceful. Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, a respected man, he said Biden has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four years, right? Four years, he said, he’s always wrong. And he has been always wrong. I don’t believe he’s even running. I can’t believe the whole thing. I’ve watched, I watched the debates. You had 27 total killers on the stage and he was there. But you don’t have to believe me because it’s you, and because it’s Wisconsin, we spent a fortune. And hopefully that’ll work better than the microphone, try it, put it on.
Joe Biden, Joe Biden.
(singing)
Have you taken –
This was today, he forgot to show up.
No, I haven’t taken the test. Why the hell would I take a test? Come on, man. That’s like saying, you before he got in this program, you’re taking tests where you’re taking cocaine or not, what do you think, huh? Are you a … By the way, that’s my little sister, Valerie. And I’m Jill’s husband, oh, no, they switched on me. That’s my wife, this is my sister. They switched on me. I tell him if you have a problem, figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t black. There is not a single solitary reason in the world, why, why, as I said, we shouldn’t be in a position that everybody … and that’s my wife, Jill, Hey, Jill, I’m Jill’s husband, actually.
And Corn Pop was a bad dude and he ran a bunch of bad boys. And I did, and back in those you [inaudible 00:53:22] how things have changed. Play the radio, make sure the television … excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night. Make sure the kids hear words. We hold these truth to be self evident. All men and women created by … you know, the thing. If you could take care, if you were a quartermaster, you can sure and help take care of running a department store thing where … and the second floor of the ladies department or whatever, you know what I mean? Well, I’m sick and tired of smart guys. You know, the rapidly rising in with … I don’t know. Ever been to a caucus? No, you haven’t. You’re a lying dog face pony soldier.
Why attack Sanders?
Why, why, why, why, why, you’re getting nervous, man. What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George, George, we’re going to find ourselves in a position where, if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be a, we’re going to be in a different world. After lie, after lie, after lie. We have to come together, that’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. And by the way, I sit on the stand and it get hot, I got hairy legs that turn blonde in the sun. And the kids used to come up and reach in the pool and rub my leg down. So it was straight and then watch the hair come back up again. They’d look at it. So I learned about roaches, I learned about kids jumping on my lap. And I’d love kids jumping on my lap.
Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have [inaudible 00:55:15] care. We have to do at least several things, one, we have to depend on what the president’s going to do right now. And first of all, he has to tell, wait till the cases before anything happens. Look, exacerbating the need for environmental justice, sorry, there’s a bug. Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t really need you to get me elected. The case where we cannot let this … we’ve never allowed any crisis from the civil war straight through to the pandemic of ’17, all the way around, ’16, we have never, never let our democracy sakes second fiddle way. We can both have a democracy, elections, and at the same time, correct the public health.
Everywhere I’ve been hearing all around the country. You’re trying your breast, but it never feels like enough. And here comes the train and he tried to make sure to continue to walk from. That’s the commuter, all right. But folks, look. Anyway, I am very willing to let the American public judge my physical and mental … my physical as well as my mental fitness. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize true international [inaudible 00:18:36].
(singing).
Thank you, what a good job.
…good job.
USA, USA, USA.
Thank you.
USA, USA, USA.
Thank you very much.
USA, USA.
That was just a small little sampling. We have many more. Some were too rough to put on, we just decided… Look. This is not what our country needs. This isn’t about… Yeah, it is about me, I guess, when you think about it. But this is not what our country can have. We can’t have this. One thing I’ll tell you I learned, President Xi of China, President Putin of Russia, Kim Jong-un of North Korea and many others, all of them, they’re very sharp. They’re very smart. They’re very sharp. He wasn’t sharp 25 years ago, and now it’s not… You can’t let this happen to our country. That’s all I can say, because it’s not a game. We’re not playing a game.
We have a good time tonight. We love each other. We’re having fun, but when you get down… It’s not about fun. We can’t let this happen to our country. Joining us tonight, speaking about somebody that’s great, is a senator who is my friend. He’s my friend and he is a… He just doesn’t stop. He’s one of the sharpest, toughest people in Washington, and he is… When he’s on somebody, that person has no chance, or that bad group has no chance. He’s the Head of Homeland, but he’s a respected person, and he’s your senator, and we love him. I’m telling you, everybody in Washington talks about him in the greatest of tones. Senator Ron Johnson. Ron, thank you.
He doesn’t stop. You talk about not giving up. He doesn’t stop. We have Bryan Steil. Congressman, great job. Great job you’re doing. Thank you. Thank you for a great job you’re doing. Glenn Grothman. Glenn, thank you very much. Great job. Glenn’s doing a great job. Darin LaHood. Darin, good job, Darin. What a good group. You have a wonderful candidate who’s going to be running, and you know who that is? Where is he? Where is Jim? Jim? Jim Oberweis. Jim, thank you, Jim. I heard you’re doing well. Glenn, how’s he doing in the polls? Okay?
He’s going to win.
He said, “He’s going to win.” When he says, “He’s going to win,” he’s going to win too. Good. Now I heard you’re doing very well. Good. Very good. State GOP Chair Andrew Hitt. How are we doing, Andrew, tomorrow? Good? We’re okay? Because he’s doing a nice job, but if we don’t win, he’ll be fired immediately. A friend of mine and a guy who’s done a terrific job, he loves his state, Kenosha’s own Reince Priebus. Where is he? Reince? Stand up, Reince. Where’s Reince? What a good guy he is, too. What a good guy. It took me years to learn how to pronounce his name properly, but he’s a fantastic person. I’m especially glad to be joined tonight by Don Jr. and Kimberly. Don?
Bring him up, bring him up, bring him up.
Come on up. They’re saying, “Bring them up.” Come on. Come on up. See, he’s a mountain man. He loves to go out to hunting. You don’t have a jacket. If you catch a cold… He likes the outdoors, huh? You doing okay? Come on, say something.
Hello, Wisconsin. Or if I was Joe Biden, I’d say, “Florida,” but doesn’t matter. You don’t have to be right. Thank you, guys. Thank you for the support. We’ve been seeing it on the ground every day for weeks, because unlike the Bidens, we don’t have a mainstream media that will campaign for us. We have to do it ourselves on the ground with you guys. We need you to get out and bring your friends to vote tomorrow. When we do, we cannot only keep making America great again, but we can make liberals cry again. Get out there and do it, Wisconsin. Get out there and do it. Thank you guys.
Good job. Thank you. Thanks, Kim. Thank you, sweetheart. Thank you very much. I’ll tell you, they’re campaigning hard. They’re all campaigning hard. They’re all campaigning. I see back there Ivanka and Jared. Jared is doing peace in the Middle East. Jared is doing a great job. Peace in the Middle East. Jared, are you going to get it done? You’re going to get it done, Jared? I hope so. Come on up. Come on up. Jared and Ivanka, come on. Come on. This is like an old home week for you. I look back, the whole family is here. Tiffany, come on up. I see Tiffany. Come on up, Tiffany. Come on up. Here, honey. Say something.
Hello, Wisconsin. You have heard my father talk about some of the things that he’s been able to accomplish over the past four years. I am so proud of so many of them. But I will say, the thing that I am most proud of is unlike politicians, he’s never forgot why he ran for president, and who he is fighting for. You. Never forgot. It is a beautiful thing to see, and he works so, so hard every single day. Let me just tell you, Washington has not changed Donald Trump. Donald Trump has changed Washington. It’s true. It’s true. There’s more to come. Now we have to fight for him, and we have to fight for this country that we love so much, and get out and vote tomorrow. Thank you, Wisconsin. We love you, and God bless.
Thank you, sweetheart. Jared, would you like to say something about peace in the Middle East to this very small crowd?
Thank you. It’s really an honor to be with all of you. I was just saying, ” Washington, if the things that the politicians were talking about were easy, they would have been done a long time ago.” But it took a leader like President Trump to come in and shake things up a little bit, but we’ve seen things get done that we never imagined could happen. I can tell you the table is set. There’s so many more things to do, and this whole family loves America. We love this country. We love all of you, and we will never stop fighting to get all the things done that President Trump has promised. Thank you for your support. Thank you for your love. Thank you. Thank you.
Great job, Jared. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thanks, kids. Thanks, everybody. I see some people. Do I see Corey Lewandowski back there? Yes. Do I see David? Is that David? Come on. Get over here, Corey. Corey Lewandowski. David, come on. David Bossie. What a group. Stand up. Just stand up. We don’t have to hear from them. The mic doesn’t work anyway, so don’t worry about it. Great job. Great job. Good luck on television tomorrow. I think you’re going to have a blow out tomorrow, okay? But I want to thank…
Look. I have a great family. I have a family. They’re working all the time, all of them. We appreciate it. Special people. We didn’t need this. We have a wonderful, super… It was just going good. Then I said, “You know, maybe I’ll give it a shot.” You know why? Because of trade. It started because of trade. I hated… I watched. It was so obvious, the way we were being ripped off on trade. I said, “Let’s give it a whirl.” I said to my wife, “I’d like to do it. What do you think?” She said, “Well, you have to really want it, because you know you will win, don’t you?” I said, “You think so? Really?” She had a little more security in the fact that if I ran… No. She said, “You will win if you… But you have to make sure you want it.” I said, “I want to do it because we have so many things we could do.”
I never thought we would have done what we’ve done, though. We’ve done a lot together. Together, we’ve done so much. I mean, you think about all… It probably started more… I talked to Ron about it. It probably started with trade, though, because I hated our companies were leaving to Mexico, Canada, China. They were all leaving our country. We had these stupid laws, and horrible tax deals where they had incentives to move to Mexico. They got incentivized to move to Mexico.
Somebody had a concept, “Gee, let’s make Mexico great again.” I said, “No. I want to make our country great again.” That’s the story. It’s a complicated story, but it all evolved into this evening. Tomorrow we have our big day, and tomorrow I think it’s going to be a really special day. I hope you can all go out. You’ll find the time, and go out and vote, and we’re going to make you very proud. You’re going to be made really very proud. I’m just finishing off. For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars, and defending foreign borders. But now we’re finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities, and we are bringing our jobs, and our factories, and our troops… Finally, finally, finally we’re bringing them back home to the U.S.A. where they belong. For 47 years, Joe Biden viscously attacked Black Americans. He called young Black men, “super predators,” all the time. To every Black American. I am asking you to go out tomorrow and vote. It’s very important. This is your one and only chance to show sleep Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, to jail you, and to betray you. I’m fighting for you, and we got criminal justice reform completed, prison reform completed, Opportunity Zones completed with the great Tim Scott of South Carolina. And funding for historically Black colleges and universities. We got that done.
I say all the time, and sometimes people will say, “That’s a big statement.” Then they realize it’s true. With the exception of Abraham Lincoln, there’s never been a president that has done so much for the Black community, and it’s my honor. It’s my honor. It is my honor, and under my leadership… And by the way, I don’t know if you have been watching what’s going on in Florida. We’re doing really well. You know what they’re talking about? The Black community and the Hispanic American community is really… They’re liking Trump. What’s going on? No, we’re doing very well. Florida. Florida is doing very well. In conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing super power of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already begun. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment. Which is totally under siege, but as long as Ron Johnson and your great congressman are there, we will protect it. Right, Glenn? Everybody. We will protect it, Ron. That’s an easy one for us. But it wouldn’t be easy if he got in. We wouldn’t have enough to say about it.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. It starts on January 1st, and it will be bigger than healthcare. Lower drug prices ever more, favored nations. The drug companies do not like me too much, I will tell you. We’ll have the lowest drug prices anywhere in the world. We will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students, and we will restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
For years, you had a president who apologized to America. Is this true? I mean, we have had… I watched Obama go out and apologize all over the world. He would apologize all over the world. He apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great, great people of Wisconsin. Tomorrow you have the power, you have the vote. You have the power really, to save America. We can’t go down that path.
We will never be a socialist country. We never be. Get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, grab your boss by the tie and say, “Come on, boss. We got to get out and vote, get out and vote.” From Madison to Milwaukee, from Janesville to La Crosse, and from… Your team is doing well, right? Your team is doing well. Green Bay. Green Bay. Do you like your quarterback? I do. I like your quarterback. You know who I like? We like Brett Favre. Do you like Brett Favre? Do you know that Brett Favre endorsed me last week? We love Brett Favre. What a great guy. I got to know him. He’s a tough cookie. He’s a tough guy. Great guy. Green Bay to right here in Kenosha, we inherit the legacy of American patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country, and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you help build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going got keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going got keep on winning, winning, winning. Winning, you. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. Together with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. Your 401Ks are doing very well.
We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We’re proud again. We’re respected. We’re respected again. We have made America safe again. We will make America great again. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you, Wisconsin. Go out and vote. Thank you. It’s a great honor.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years-
Thank you very much. Thank you. This does not look like a second-place finish. I saw Sleepy Joe. He had about 12 people and unable to fill up his circles. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years-
Thank you very much. Ah, Pennsylvania. We love Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is a nice rowdy crowd, isn’t it? Only in Pennsylvania. We win Pennsylvania, we win the whole deal. You know that. Just like last time. We want to have the same result as we had last time. Hello, Scranton. Hello, Pennsylvania. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and we are going to win more four more years in the White House. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, support our magnificent military, protect your Second Amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA. Right? More and more.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA-
Thank you. Thank you. Remember, last time they said, “No, no, Pennsylvania hasn’t been won by a Republican for many, many years, many, many years,” and then we won. It wasn’t even close, when you get right down it. Thank you very much. Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you-
That’s really nice. Don’t make me cry. I’ll cry with that whole thing. I’ll cry. Then they’ll have it on, they’ll say the president broke down and cried in front of his fans. I don’t know. Hey, maybe would lift you up, right? You pick up 10 points for crying. I say, I still don’t want to do it. Thank you very much. It’s really nicee.
We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump-
Thank you. Nobody’s ever heard that chant before. It’s never a chance that anybody’s ever heard in a political way. We like Ronald Reagan, we like people, but nobody’s ever heard of that chant and we appreciate it. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. We have the foundation, it’s already done. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. Last Friday, it was released. 33.1%, the fasted. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months, while foreign nations are in a free fall. You see what’s happening all over the world. We are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world.
We went down less and we’ve gone up much more. Nobody close. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago. If Biden and Kamala … You know Kamala, right? Kamala. Remember it’s the Harris-Biden administration, when he said that? The Harris-Biden … No, no, Joe. You’re supposed to go first, Joe. But Harris and the radical left and she is radical left. She’s further, I guess you could say Bernie is a conservative by comparison, right? No, she’s the most far left. The radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send Pennsylvania into a steep depression.
Don’t worry about it. It’s not going to happen. I don’t think it’s going to happen. We’re going to win. We’ve got some big surprises. Oh, look at all of the fake news. Look at all of the fake news. Hey, Kevin, Kevin, Kevin. Kevin, turn the mic on them. Turn the mic on them.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump-
Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increasing your regulations. They’re going to increase your regulations, may be more important than the tax cuts. We gave the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, and maybe more importantly, we did regulation cuts, which were also the biggest in the history of our country. Whether it be four years, eight years, or in one case more. Shut down your economy, close down manufacturing, send your jobs overseas, destroy our suburbs and he will destroy our suburbs. I say to the women of the suburbs, “Love me, women of the suburbs. Bless you.” I terminated the regulation. Dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private healthcare. 180 million people outlaw. They’re going to have socialized medicine. That’s what they’re going to have. Somehow, I don’t see Pennsylvania liking that too much. Confiscate your guns. Second Amendment in big trouble, and indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies. I just signed an executive order to teach our students pro-American value.
Biden has vowed to abolish, extinguish and eradicate American oil, all fracking and natural gas. I say this because, we’ll give it an extra little time. This is Pennsylvania. This is a state, that’s a wonderful state. I went to school here. I went to college here and I’ll tell you what, and I know it well, a big part of your livelihood or your money, your income, your low taxes is fracking. He spent over a year saying he will not allow fracking.
He’s crazy, Boss.
The first time he came into Pennsylvania as the nominee, which was a shock to everybody, everybody, all Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren had to do is leave two days early, and it would have been Crazy Bernie, instead of Sleepy Joe. I would have had a crazy guy instead of a sleepy guy. But he came in and after going for one year and she, forgot it, she still can’t say it. She can’t say it. But he said, “No, we will ban fracking. We will ban fracking.” That’s what he said many, many times. Once he got the nomination, he came to Pennsylvania. They said, “You’re going to have to do something because you have a million jobs and it’s a massive part of your wealth.” He walked in and he went from, we will ban fracking to, of course, we can have fracking. What’s the problem? Just remember this, it’s always … Yeah, that’s right. He said, play the video, and I might not have that one in the video today. But you know, he immediately changed. The fake news, the fake news, where is Hunter?
Where’s Hunter? Hunter’s in a foreign country taking in 25 million today. He’s at a country that his father just left, picking up about 25 million. Now, that’s total corruption. But he went out, and he started talking about fracking. He said, “We will absolutely allow you, but not on government land,” and the press never held him accountable. They never held him accountable for all of the corruption that he’s a part of. Biden’s plan to ban fracking, is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania. Biden’s energy shutdown will wipe out your jobs, decimate your towns, eliminate your factories and send your state into a nightmare of crippling poverty. You’ve been there. You’ve been there. You had the best three years that you’ve ever had, under President Trump. The best three years. The best three years.
Next year will be the best of all. Watch. You see it happening. If you look at housing starts, you look at automobile manufacturing, you’re going to have your best year next year, unless somebody decides to come along and quadruple your taxes. Then, you’re going down here, which is what he’s going to do. A vote for Biden is a vote to ban fracking, outlaw mining, explode energy costs, and totally destroy Pennsylvania. You know that right? It’s going to destroy Pennsylvania and it can happen. It can happen very fast. You take a look at a country, take a look at Venezuela, same ideology. This was unbelievably wealthy, rich country, one of the richest countries, and now they don’t have water. They don’t have food. They don’t have medicine. It’s a very sad situation and it can happen here, just much, much bigger, but it can happen here with these maniacs. It’s one of those things. Joe Biden is a globalist, who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure on ridiculous, endless foreign wars. Most of you have never even heard of some of these countries. He shuttered your steel mills. I got them open. I got them open.
I tariffed, very nicely tariffed dumped steel. They were dumping steel. China was dumping steel all over the place. You ask the heads of your steel companies. You wouldn’t have any steel companies right now. Annihilated your coal jobs and supported every disastrous trade deal, for a half a century. He was a cheerleader of NAFTA, which was one of the worst trade deals ever made. We have a very good one now, thank you. China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which lifted China into a great power, a great economic power, except they were going to catch us. For 10 years, if you study, China was going to catch us in 2019. Guess what? We were going so far ahead, and frankly, if you have somebody smart, real smart in this position, they’ll never catch you. They will never ever catch you.
But, if you study The history, you’ll see, 10 years ago, 2019, they will catch, and they would have. If I didn’t come along, they would’ve caught you. They would’ve caught you. Then, we had the plague. We built the greatest economy in history, and then we had the plague coming from China. Came in, we closed it down. We saved 2 million lives. We saved 2 million lives and nobody gets it. The projection was 2.2 million modeled out. We saved 2 million lives. We understand the disease and now we opened it up. By the way, Pennsylvania, get your state open. Get it open. Terrible. Terrible. The governor has to open your state, Pennsylvania, has to open your state.
[inaudible 00:16: 03].
Terrible. Wow. Get it open. Get it open, Governor. Get it open and count the votes, honestly. Governor, count them honestly. There was a very good poster last night, actually a good one. He has us winning everything, but he was on last night. How’s he going to do in Pennsylvania? He was on a show called Sean Hannity. Have you ever heard of it? He said, how’s he going to do in Pennsylvania? He’s going to win Pennsylvania, except for the cheating. We figure we have to leave 5% for the cheating that takes [inaudible 00:16:48]. Can you believe it, for the cheating that takes place in Pennsylvania? The guy meant it. A very great pollster, but he predicted he would win the whole election. But the question was, “What about Pennsylvania?”
He said, “Well, you have to leave 5% for the cheating.” When the Supreme Court gave you an extension, they made a very dangerous situation and I mean, dangerous, physically dangerous. They made it a very, very bad … They did a very bad thing for this state. They did a very bad thing for this nation. You have to have a date. You can’t extend dates. The danger that could be caused by that extension, and especially when you know what goes on in Philadelphia, and it’s been going on for years. Governor, open up your state and please don’t cheat, Governor. Please don’t cheat, because we’re all watching.
We’re all watching you, Governor. We have a lot of eyes on the governor and his friend. Couple of other governors out there too. Pennsylvania lost half its manufacturing jobs after-
[inaudible 00:18:05].
Thank you. Thank you. Pennsylvania lost half of your manufacturing jobs. Think of it. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who sold out to Pennsylvania, to China and also sold out for personal gain and family gain. Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter in the crowd? Where is Hunter? In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider as your President, who is finally putting America first. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. Probably, why, I’m here.
If I don’t know always play by the rules of Washington or the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, harder than anyone has ever fought. I will tell you that. Now, think of everything we’ve been through. Look, from before I came to office, from before I came … whatever, we’ll do that in a second. Boy, you are an enthusiastic bunch. You are something. Well, first of all, first of all, you’re known as a late-voting state. That means you’re smart. How about all the things, hashtag, how do I change my vote? Did you see that? After the debate, the number one trend was, How do we change our vote?” That was the debate. Did everybody see the debate? Yeah. They wanted to change their vote. A lot of people went, “Is this a Change the Vote state? Not so much, probably. I don’t think your governor would let you do that. No, we have some states that change-
… I don’t think your governor would let you do that. Now we have some states, they’re changing the votes and it was started with the debates. And then they see the rallies, the biggest rallies, by the way. And I’ll say this to the fake news. In the history of our country, there’s never been anything like this. And this is at a pretty early part of the day. I wouldn’t say it’s exactly primetime. You had to see last night in Florida. It was amazing.
But think of this. They write from before I even ran. I mean, I announced. Maybe before I announced, they said, “I hear Trump is … oh, let’s go in and do it.” But think of it. We were under investigation for three years and it turned out to be a phony hoax, and it was a phony impeachment. And based on the laptop from hell, the impeachment should have never been. It should have never happened. In fact, it should have happened against the other side because it was the other side that cheated. It was the other side that dealt with Russia. But think of it.
And then they say, “President Trump, we don’t know if we like his personality. President Trump, he’s too rough. He’s too tough.” Let me tell you something, if we didn’t have a certain type of personality and if we didn’t fight, we wouldn’t be here right now, because we caught them spying on our campaign and trying to take out a duly elected president of the United States. And I fought like hell, because we don’t know any other way. We have to fight. But we caught them and they turned out to be the people that were corrupt. No collusion. They spent $48 million, they found no collusion. They had 18 angry Democrat prosecutors. I have friends that say there’s probably nobody that … and he was is one of the smartest. There’s probably nobody that he knows that could have withstood that.
So we had 18 angry crooked Democrats. You had Bob Mueller that didn’t have a clue. You had all of this stuff. Think of it. We went through that for two and a half, three years, and then they say, “Oh, we don’t like the way he acted.” We were under siege illegally. They committed treason. They tried to take out a duly elected president and we caught them. We caught them. And then they say … I see it today. Then they say, “Oh, wouldn’t it be nice … ”
And then I say … I see these guys on television and all of the big tech stuff, which is probably worse than them, right? They’re the new boss in town, right? Not the media. They just showed up, the big tech. And we gave the power to the big tech. But now I see it, I look at it, and I say, “Gee, they’re saying, ‘Tough administration, chaos.'” They created the chaos. All we did was fight back and we fought back well and we caught them and they’re all caught and now let’s see what happens, okay? Let’s see what happens.
But we caught them. It’s treason. They spied on our campaign. Nothing like that’s ever happened. That’s a bigger event … I would rate Biden second. His family and him took millions and millions of dollars from countries that he deals with. He became vice-president. He had a son that didn’t have a job, he got thrown out of the military, and he went years with no job. And then he signs with Burisma for $183,000 a month. And then he wanted $3 million upfront payment. “What’s your experience? What do you know about energy?” “I don’t know anything about energy.” “Oh, that’s okay. We’ll put you on the board anyway.” And then he gets three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife, three and a half million. Well gee, Hunter, what did you do? You gave her some big advice I guess, out there, right?
And then they go to China, he takes out one and a half billion dollars to manage, which is millions and millions of dollars a year. And then the big one, I guess he had to stop that one because they found the laptop from hell. But the big one was a request to China to pay them $10 million a year for recommendation services, for services. No services, it’s a payoff. Hey, you know what it is? It’s a payoff. And the big guy gets 10%. He’s not a big guy. He’s a little guy. The big guy gets 10%, and there was another one where the big guy gets 50%, right?
But he wanted $10 million a year, and the tech and the media will not … wait, the media will not … this is actually a very big moment in the history of our country because we have freedom of the press. But we don’t. We have suppression by the press. It’s suppression. And if anybody even mentions that story … you don’t see that story in the New York Times. You don’t see … that is the second biggest scandal in the history of our country. First is that they spied on my campaign, that’s the biggest scandal. And they’ve got everybody scared, but you have a president that wasn’t scared.
And I see it with Twitter trending. I know what trending is better than anybody in the world. I’ve been trending my whole life. From the day I was born, I’ve been trending. I know trending. They take a story, they make it worse. Boring story, boring stuff. They’ll take something and they’ll say, “Number one trending, Trump this. Number one trend … ” it’s not trending. What trends is stuff that you don’t want to talk about right now, not having to do with me either by the way. Look, what we have, and what’s happened, and you’ve seen it all over the last two weeks, is a horrible, horrible thing. The media is fake and corrupt. Big tech controls the media and they control the politicians.
And you know what? You have a president that’s willing to say it. And it’s a very, very big event. And let’s say … and I’ll tell you what. I give Tucker Carlson and I give Sean Hannity and I give Laura … I give all the people that are willing to talk about it. No, the Tucker reports have been phenomenal. I give all of those people that are willing to talk about tremendous credit, because people don’t have any idea how dangerous this is for our country.
They won’t even think about … a guy walks away with millions of dollars. He’s vice president, his son’s like a human vacuum cleaner. He follows his father and he takes the scraps. But the scraps are hundreds of millions of dollars. And we can’t let this happen. We’re putting a corrupt man up for possibly being elected. But here’s the story. I don’t think that’s going to happen. I think we’re going to have a tremendous day tomorrow.
And when he announces his speech in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he said, “I live in Pennsylvania. I was born in Scranton.” He doesn’t say that his father left him. There’s nothing wrong with that. I went to college in Pennsylvania, right? But I don’t make the biggest deal of it. But he’s … “I’m a man from Scranton. I’m from … ” He left at nine years old. And that’s okay. That’s okay. But this guy is a stone cold phony, and honestly, he’s not equipped mentally to be your president. He really isn’t.
You know it, I know it, everybody knows it. I have foreign leaders calling me saying, “Are they serious?” I say … One of them called, said, “I see that you’re down a little bit in the poll.” I said, “Can you believe this could happen to me?” I’d rather run against somebody that was good or even outstanding. But I think what we’re going to have is one of the great days. When he comes to Scranton, then he gives a speech, he’s got the six circles. He can’t fill them up. So he said, “Could you please move over here to the press?” He puts the press [inaudible 00:28:48]. And look at this crowd. I don’t know how many people are here, but there’s a lot of people here. And it’s windy as hell and it’s cold, but I couldn’t care.
Look at that flag. Oh, it’s so beautiful. Look, I’ve never seen a flag blow like that. You know what that means? That means it’s windy as hell. That’s what it means. Wow. Look at that. That’s sideways, but it’s our American flag and we love it, right? Yesterday, I was thrilled to be endorsed by the Pittsburgh Post Gazette. Can you believe it? Pittsburgh Post Gazette, and it’s the first time I’ve ever really liked that paper. And then once you get rid of the first one or two paragraphs, it was great. He said, “You might not like his tone. You might not like the way … ” and again, I’m a nice guy. I have to fight. I have to fight to protect me and to protect you. Because once I’m not here, there’s nobody else to protect you, that I can tell you. But they gave a beautiful … you have to understand, everything’s relative. They gave a beautiful, beautiful editorial, and I appreciate it.
We love you.
It’s the first time, thank you. I’m telling you, you’re going to make me cry with that. Stop. The president broke down in tears as they screamed, “We love you.” I don’t know if president Xi of China wants to hear that. Yeah, he probably worked like that. The first time the papers endorsed a Republican for president in over a half a century. So to the people of the Post Gazette, I would like to thank you. I will forgive you for your first one or two or three paragraphs, because they said, “However, he’s done a great job.” And I have, I’ve done a great job.
But he said, “Put his personality aside,” but I’m telling you, the assault on this office has changed my personality. I can’t … it’s just one of those things. Joe Biden is bought and paid for by big tech, big media and powerful special interest. They own him, they control him, and they know he will always do their bidding. And when he raises 300 billion like last month, I could raise much more than him. I’m president. I could call all these Wall Street guys, most of them I know. I could call the oil guys, I could call them all. I would be … I would blow his numbers apart. Give me two hours. I say, “Send me 10 million … we don’t need it. How many commercials can you buy?” We raised a lot of money.
We raised enough money. Crooked Hillary last time outspent us four to one. And I actually got criticized. I said the other day, even against Hillary Clinton, he didn’t raise that much money. And you won the race, right? They don’t care if you won or not. They said they always have to find something. But I would be the greatest fundraiser of time. “This is the president of the United States calling for the head of Goldman Sachs.” “Hello? How are you, Bill? Is everything good? Now listen, I’d like $25 million within the next five minutes. Send it to the White House, please.” What, do you think he’s going to say no? I would be the greatest, but you know what? I chose not to do that.
And when you see he raised $300 million, his people are making deals all over the place. Every corrupt force in American life that betrayed you and hurt you, they’re supporting sleepy Joe Biden. The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they support Biden. The career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories and you got it worse than anybody else just about. New England was hit hard too. They support Biden. The open borders lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens and gave them illegal drugs destroyed our families and so many people, the gangs and crime, they support sleepy Joe Biden. The far left Democrats that ruined our public schools, depleted our inner cities, defunded our police and demeaned your sacred faith and values, they support Joe Biden. And I see where they wanted to defund your great Philadelphia police. And you have great police. They want to defund your Philadelphia police. Have you seen that? They actually wanted to defund.
Back the blue.
They wanted to defund your police. I read it this morning. I don’t know. I don’t think that’s a good idea. I don’t think people should take it. You can’t take it anymore, right? You can’t allow it to happen. And every place we’ve got into within a half an hour, it was over. But they have to ask the federal government. They’re embarrassed or they’re afraid or they think they’re going to lose support. We want to go into Portland, we’ll settle that in two minutes. We were the ones that did the whole thing in Seattle. We told them we were going in the following morning. That night, they raised their hands. They said, “Well, I think we’ll leave now.” They took over a big chunk of Seattle. Now we can’t allow this stuff. If you look at what’s going on in Philadelphia, you look at what’s … that can’t be done. And they can’t tell the police to stand] back.
They can’t tell them. They stand back and they watch people walk out with washing machines. A guy’s pushing a washing machine. That’s a disgrace, it’s a disgrace. And the world watches that. They’re all Democrat run cities and states. New York, Chicago, unfortunately, Pennsylvania, and many of them are closed, right? Because you know why they’re closed? Because they thought it would hurt our numbers, and then they saw 33.1. That was a big number. The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, heritage and heroes. They support Joe Biden. Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left wing extremists, they all support sleepy Joe Biden, sleepy Joe.
And by the way, just so you understand, because look, Joe has no clue. Joe’s not calling the shots. And I guarantee you, he won’t be calling them for very long. This election comes down to a simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the corrupt, selfless political class, or do you want to be ruled and governed by the American people? Which is what we’re doing, which is one of the reasons I’m here. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist, communist, socialist, the wealthy liberal hypocrites, who want to silent, sensor, cancel, and punish you. If you want your children to be safe, if you want your values to be respected, if you want to be treated with honor, dignity, and respect, then I am asking you to go tomorrow and vote for Trump. Come on.
Well, it’s up to you really. You got to get out. I’m telling you … again, I’ll say it again and again, Pennsylvania, I’ve done very well. You’ve had your best years ever. Pennsylvania. It’s going to be up to you. Such a big deal. Big state, everything … and we’re doing great in Florida. Florida’s been great. You notice they’re not talking about Florida anymore. Florida has been great. We’re doing great in Florida. So we get Florida. We get Pennsylvania. We’re going to get North Carolina. We’re doing great in North Carolina. You saw the poll come out yesterday in Iowa, way ahead in Iowa. We’re way ahead in Ohio, except we get sometimes a fake poll. We’re way ahead. We won Ohio by eight points. They say we’re further up than that this time, because everything I talked about, we have done, and more. We’ve done more than I talked about. Remember what I said four years ago? I am your voice and we will make America great again, and that’s what we’re doing.
For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me because they know that I don’t answer to them, I answer to you, and it’s true. We did this together. This is a movement, the likes of which this country … in a way the world probably, but this country has never seen. You take some of the things that have happened over many, many years. A politician runs and comes in second in New Hampshire, becomes famous for the rest of his life. We won … well, we won everything this time. We won 100% of the states and the primaries, right? But we won 34 states against a crooked person, a very crooked person. By the way, how crooked it Hillary? She deleted 33,000 emails. What’s happening with that? But we won. We won like nobody’s ever won. Nobody’s ever won like we’ve won. No, the likes of which nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
And just to get off that subject for a second, 2016, we had a campaign, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. Can I be honest? There is much more enthusiasm for this campaign than there was four years ago, because four years ago I came and I was a successful guy, and I said, “We’re going to do this. We’re going to cut your taxes. We’re going to get rid of regulations. We’re going to rebuild your military. We’re going to this or that or that or that.” And I did everything and more than everything.
We’re going to take care of our vets. We just got a 91% approval rating from the vets on the VA. Okay. No, but think of it. We did everything we said we were going to do, but there is much more. And you know what? That was a record. There was never a campaign … nobody’s ever seen a campaign like that. That and Brexit … look at him. We have Nigel. I spotted Nigel. Ah, Nigel. But I actually did see a list, Nigel. They said the victory of President Trump was number one. Brexit was number two, but it was a distant number two. And even Nigel agrees with that. No, Nigel has been fantastic. What a voice. Great voice.
Nigel’s been fantastic. What a voice. Great voice. Great guy. Thank you. Thank you. It’s an honor to have you. It’s an honor. They know Nigel. Brexit, Mr. Brexit. But the level of enthusiasm and I think you’re going to see a great red wave tomorrow. And I think it’s going to blow them away and we get Florida and we get Pennsylvania and we’re going to get New Hampshire. We’re going to get New Hampshire. Get New York. Can you believe that? See the disadvantage we have, the disadvantage we have, because I think in certain ways you campaign totally differently. The disadvantage we have with the electoral college, you automatically lose, automatically. I don’t care if you bring back Abraham Lincoln and George Washington as his running mate, you lose New York, Illinois, and California. Okay.
So now you got three of the biggest and the biggest, but you have three monster states. That’s an automatic loss. So you’re starting off so then you have to run. And so we ran Florida then we got Georgia. By the way, we’re doing very well in Georgia. We got Georgia, we got North Carolina, we got Pennsylvania. That was a very important deal. We got Pennsylvania. We got everything. Then we got Wisconsin and Michigan. We said, “Whoa.” Remember they wouldn’t give you the credit. We were two points short. We were at 98% of the vote tabulated, 98, and it stayed there for hours.
And if I lost every single vote, right, every and I still went in. So I said, “Why aren’t they calling Pennsylvania?” They wouldn’t do you the honor. And then they called Wisconsin, great state. And they called Michigan, which hadn’t been won in years and years. And they took the glamor. So will you please give yourself the glamor this time? Give yourself the glory. Okay. And make sure your governor doesn’t cheat, okay, if you could because they’re known for very bad things, very, very bad things here. Can you imagine the pollster saying you have to allow 5% in Pennsylvania for cheating. That’s a terrible thing to say. Of course, everybody knows it’s true, but no. But we have a lot of eyes watching. They never had eyes watching. We got a lot of very powerful eyes watching them. They don’t want that to happen to themselves. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment and we’ll dethrone the fail political class.
We will drain the Washington swamp and we will save the American dream. We’re going to save the American dream. This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and we build the greatest economic country that we’ve ever had. There’ll be nothing like it. We will mass distribute the vaccine. We’ve done such a great job with this whole thing. You look at Europe, they’re spiking, and it’s everybody that say, “Look at the way Germany is doing. Look at the way France is doing. Look at Spain, look at now, Italy, right.” Italy in a really rough patch. Then it went well, they’re all having a lot of problems. I said, “Well, they don’t use those examples anymore,” but we have better numbers than all of them.
You look at our numbers, they’re better, and it’s bigger and a lot of the numbers you don’t get because believe it or not, there are some countries that don’t give you an honest kick, right. You know that right? It will quickly eradicate. The vaccine will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the China plague once and for all. And let me tell you we’re rounding the corner anyway, but we have the vaccines coming very shortly. They didn’t want to give me the credit. They were saying, “No, don’t.” Whoa, they fought me like crazy. Did you see that? They didn’t want it to happen before the election, but everybody knows. So we have the vaccine. It’s going to be very quickly delivered by our military. Our military is ready to go logistically. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state locking you in your home, but you’re already locked in your home.
So I hope that doesn’t take away any of your incentive. You’re already locked in your home while letting far left rioters roam free. Isn’t that something right? You can’t go to church. You can’t take your family to dinner, but you can let people riot down the middle of your beautiful shopping streets, knocking the hell out of people, burning down your stores like in Minneapolis, burning the hell out of the place until we sent in the National Guard. That ended in 31 minutes. It was amazing when they started getting whacked with tear. I hope they weren’t aiming. Did you see Ali Velshi? He went down, Ali. I don’t even know who the hell he is.
I just know he does a very nice job of shaving his head. This is Ali Velshi and this is a friendly protest. And behind him, the entire city is burning. It’s like Berlin on its worst day, right. They don’t report. If you have a bad in a Democrat run city, they don’t report it. I don’t watch CNN actually so I don’t know about it, but I did see the clips. And then the Allie Velshi then get hit on the knee with tear gas from our great National Guard. No, he got hit. He went down. I’m down, I’m down. What a group of people. CNN, how dishonest is CNN. But you know what? I think NBC is more dishonest than CNN.
I think NBC and ABC. I think ABC is terrible. I mean, ABC is absolutely. How about where they interview me and every question is a kill. They go in for the kill and then they interview Sleepy Joe. And it’s like, “Oh, the most boring interviews.” They don’t ask him anything. They don’t ask him whether or not he’s corrupt. Are you corrupt? Hey, Sleepy Joe, are you corrupt? Remember I asked him that question and Chris Wallace of Fox wouldn’t allow it. I said, “Why? Why? Why won’t you?” Well, I don’t think it’s appropriate to ask right now. Chris Wallace, he is not Mike. He will never be Mike. He tries hard, but he will not be Mike. You know why? Doesn’t have the talent. The Biden lockdown will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Easter, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no 4th of July, and basically no future for American youth.
Other than that, actually, it’s quite a wonderful thing. A vote for Biden is a vote for lockdown, layoffs, and misery. You’re going to have a miserable time. You know what the fake news doesn’t know? They’re getting the highest ratings in the history of television. When Trump is gone, they’re all going bankrupt. They will go down. They’re going to say, “Oh, I wish…” They’re going to be calling we want Trump to run again. We want him to run again, the fake news. The New York Times, the failing New York Times will be out of business. Can you imagine? Yeah, four more years. It’s true though, right. Can you imagine these people, they’re getting the highest ratings on television. They’ve taken over for the NFL. People don’t like. How about basketball? How about LeBron? I felt badly for LeBron. I felt very badly. Down 71%. And that’s for the champion. I didn’t watch one shot. I get bored. Back, forth, back, forth. You know why? When they don’t respect our country, when they don’t respect our flag, nobody wants to watch. Nobody. And the NFL is way down.
The NFL is way down. You got to stand for our flag. You got to really be great to our flag and to our anthem. And if you don’t do that, we’re not watching.
LeBron James sucks. LeBron James sucks. LeBron James sucks. LeBron James sucks.
What a crowd.
LeBron James sucks. LeBron James sucks. LeBron James sucks.
What a crowd.
LeBron James sucks.
Hey, I have three more of these to do. Do you want me to stay with you all day? Yes. So yesterday I did five. I actually did six because I did one early for some people, but I actually did six, but I did five. I got home at two o’clock in the morning in Miami. I got home two o’clock in the morning and I said, “Good, what time do we start tomorrow?” Eight o’clock sir. I said, “Great. Let’s go.” But you know what it is? I’m doing a run, a great, great marathon, everyone. One thing I’ll say, they say I can’t believe because Sleepy Joe will go out. He’ll talk for 10 minutes. He’s very agitated. You notice? He’s so angry. He’s got the shades on now. They should be a little bit larger. The aviators, right. Are they called aviators? He’s got the aviators on and he’s so angry. And he’s reading every word. He never goes off teleprompter because he gets lost.
He can’t go off teleprompter. He gets lost. No, but the anger, but it’s not really anger. It’s agitation. You know what that means right? That’s what happens is when you lose it, it can happen to all of us someday, but you can’t let it happen to your president. I’m sorry. But he was so angry. He was so agitated this morning. The glasses were pouring off. The mask kept on, off, on. There’s nobody around him. The closest person’s about 60 feet away, a reporter that’s can’t believe he got this good location in the inner circle that’s supposed to be for VIP’s, right. Now he’s got Lady Gaga. Lady Gaga is not too good. I could tell you plenty of stories. I could tell you stories about Lady Gaga. I know a lot of stories about Lady Gaga. And Jon Bon Jovi, every time I see him, he kisses my ass. Oh, Mr. President. He’ll get something out of it just like everyone is. But you know what happens? You bring in some of these, they don’t draw. By the way, we draw much bigger crowds than these people. But you know what happens?
He’ll sing a song or two and then he’ll leave and the crowd will leave and Sleepy Joe’s up there talking. That happened to Hillary too, right. They got Beyonce and they got Jay-Z, right, Jay-Z. And he started using the F word, do you remember, in front of this crowd. And it was unbelievable. He was using the F word, F word, F word, and the crowd is going. And then they laughed and the crowd laughed. And Hillary was standing on the stage with an empty place and she was talking and she lost and people were surprised. Let me tell you something. When you look at these crowds that we’re getting, there’s never been anything like it. This is just not the crowds. This is your ultimate poll. This is not the crowds of a second place finisher.
They said yesterday, they said, “Well, some people are here since, Nigel, they’re here from 24 hours, 48.” We have people in line for three, four days, and then the press says, “But will they vote?” Well, wait a minute. They’re willing to go. They’re willing to wait four days, three days, two days, one day online. Will they vote? Will they send there for an hour and vote? I think they’re going to vote. Who is going to vote? Okay. And seriously, is there anybody here who’s going to vote for Sleepy Joe? No. No. Is there anybody that would have the courage to put up their hand? No.
Ah, but he was born in Scranton. What a phony he is. He was born in Scranton. I’m a Scranton boy. Did you see I’m tired of the smart people? Did you see where he said he is. I’m tired of those smart people. But we want a smart person as president. You got to have a smart. No, he said it. He made a lot of bad moves yesterday, didn’t he. He was having a bad day yesterday. He’s tired of smart people. No, can’t get too tired of them. To me, that’s an amazing statement. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then go cast your ballot. You cast your ballot. We’re changing. We’re changing things too. You could say what it used to be, but maybe it used to be a little bit like this, but it was never like this. Things change I think with big tech. I think it really changed. Joe Biden personally ran the swine flu, right. He ran H1N1. Remember he can’t remember that. He always goes no, N1H1 isn’t it? No, H comes before N Joe, just remember it that way. H1N1 swine flu. Remember he said the what was that called? Who was that governor from I think it was Utah? He’s a Mormon. What was his name? His name was Romney. Oh great. He’s another beauty. He failed horribly and he was the laughingstock of Washington so he ran the swine flu operation. He was the laughing stock of Washington. Now, when something much more lethal that we have done a great job on except with public relations. I would say if I had Nigel handling my public relations, I would have been much better. We have done a great job on this and you compare us to other places and you see and bringing back the economy, opening it up except in public relations.
But his own chief of staff said that he was absolutely terrible. He didn’t have a clue. He didn’t know what he was doing. And he told us, right, that I was xenophobic because I closed it to China, which was highly and heavily infected. And hen he runs it and he says I should have closed it earlier. I said, “How does he get out of that one?” You know how he gets out of that one? The press doesn’t report it. They refused to report it. The only way I can do that is look, I got all live television, all the lights, and the only way they can’t keep it off only for one reason, I get very big ratings.
If I didn’t get big ratings, there’d be no way of communicating. Oh, and they’re going to miss those ratings someday. Someday, they’re going to miss them. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said that Biden has been wrong on nearly every single major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four years. Now, he with Biden. He worked with him and he said he was wrong on everything, and he is. And he is, but you don’t have to take my word for it because this happens to be a state that allow, I spent a fortune on building these screens. You’ve got two of them. Wow. Usually I bring one. It’s a lot cheaper. Roll the video, please. Roll it.
Joe Biden, Joe Biden. (singing). Joe Biden.
Have you taken a cognitive test?
No, I haven’t taken a test. Why the hell would I take a test? Come on man. That’s like saying you, before you got in this program, did you take a test where you’re taking cocaine or not? What do you think, huh? Are you a [inaudible 00:55:43]? Bu the way, this is my little sister, Valerie, and I’m Jill’s husband. Oh no, this is [inaudible 00:55:48]. Oh, you switched on me. This is my wife. This is my sister. They switched on me. But I tell if you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you aren’t black. There is not a single solitary reason in the world why. Why, as I said, we shouldn’t be in a position that everybody and that’s my wife, Jill. Hey Jill. I’m Jill’s husband actually.
And corn pop was a bad dude and he ran a bunch of bad boys and I did. And back in those days, you see how things have changed. Play the radio, make sure the television… Excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night. The phone… Make sure the kids hear words. We hold these truths to be self evident. All men and women created by you know the thing. Because if you could take care if you were a quartermaster you can sure in hell take care running a department store and the second floor, the ladies department. Well, I’m sick and tired of smart guys. The rapidly rising in with… I don’t know. You ever been to a caucus? No you haven’t. You’re a lying dog faced pony soldier.
Why attack Sanders?
Why, why, why, why, why, why, why here? You’re getting nervous man. What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of Georgia, Georgia, we are going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. Lie after lie after lie after lie. We have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. And by the way, I sit on the stand and they get hot. I got hairy legs that turn blonde in the sun. And the kids used to come up and reach in the pool and rub my leg down so it was [inaudible 00:58:02]. And then watch the hair come back up again. They look at it. So I learned about roaches. I learned about kids jumping on my lap and I’ve loved kids jumping on my lap. Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have bad health care. We have to do at least several things.
One, we have to depend on what the president’s going to do right now. And first of all, he has to tell wait till the cases before anything happens. Look, exacerbating the need for environmental justice. Sorry, that was a bug. Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t really need you to get me elected. It’s a case where we cannot let this. We’ve never allowed any crisis from the Civil War straight through to the pandemic of 17 all the way round 16, we have never, never let our democracy sakes second fiddle way the way that we can both have a democracy and elections and at the same time, correct the public health. Everywhere I’ve been hearing all around the country. You’re trying your breast, but it never feels like enough. And here comes the train that he tried to make sure didn’t continue to go out front. No, that’s the commuter. All right, but folks, look. Anyway, I am very willing to let the American public judge my physical as well as my mental fitness. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [inaudible 00:59:39]. (singing).
All right. All right.
All right. We shouldn’t be laughing. Don’t let that happen to our country. By the way, that was just a small… We could keep you there all day watching that. No, we can’t let that happen to our country. We’re joined by some real warriors, Dan Wowser, [Mouser 01:00:27]. Where’s Dan? Where are you, Dan? Dan, Congressman? Where are you, Congressman? Where’s Dan Meuser? Meuser?
Thank you very much. Thanks, Dan. Fred Keller, GT Thompson. That’s good. With you, with the three of you, what warriors you’ve been. What warriors you’ve been and thank you very much. They were there at the beginning and they have been with me all the way. And you have a couple of former members that we love that we think are great, Lou Barletta and Tom Marino. Thank you very much, Tom, Lou. Thank you. Thank you very much.
How are your elections going by the way? Dan, how are you guys going? You’re doing good? We’re going to win Pennsylvania. It’s a guaranteed [inaudible 01:01:17]. That’s good. [inaudible 01:01:22], you got to vote for those guys. That’s a great group. So your districts are looking good. You need an extra tweet or anything? You don’t need? This group doesn’t need anything. And also thank you fellows for coming. When are you going to re-run for office, Tom and Lou? Do you have anything you’re thinking about? Look at them. They look healthy as can be.
Congressional candidate, Jim Bognet. Thank you, Jim. Thank you.
And a woman who is doing an incredible job, campaign chair, Bernie Comfort. Bernie, thank you. How’s it going, Bernie? We’re going to have a big victory tomorrow I think, huh? We’re going to have a big one. We better, Bernie. I’ll fire you so fast.
Another great friend of mine, a great guy, David Urban. David. David, thank you, David. And somebody that I know very well. He’s a tall young gentleman. His name is Eric Trump and he’s been great. He’s done great. Oh, and I see Jared Kushner right over here. Middle East peace. Middle East peace. Wow. Jared usually likes to stay in the plane and work. He’s working on Middle East peace and doing a great job. You wee what we’re doing. Thank you very much.
For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders, but not defending our border. But now we’re finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA where they belong.
For 47 years, Joe Biden viciously attacked black Americans. He called young black men super predators all the time. To every black American, go tomorrow and vote for Trump.
This is your one and only chance to show sleepy Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, jail you and betray you, which is what he did. I’m fighting for you. And I got criminal justice reform, prison reform, Opportunity Zones with Tim Scott. Tim Scott, the Senator from South Carolina who is great. And funding for historically black colleges and universities. We got them the funding, long-term funding. And I say it all the time, I say it like this, with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, a lot of people like me to leave the word possible out. There is no president that has done more for the black community than Donald Trump. It’s true.
And you’re seeing that by the way… You see what’s going on in Florida? The numbers are very high, like nobody’s seen before, with the black community and with the Hispanic American community. Oh, the Hispanic American, they’re liking Trump. I’ve done a lot for them and they like me and I like them. I always have actually. And they are voting for us very big. They’re coming out in Florida in numbers and the Democrats are very worried. They say, “What’s going on? What’s going on?” You know what’s going on? I’ve done a good job. That’s what’s going on. So I want to thank… We have to see what the final numbers are, but I think I can say in advance, African American community, Hispanic American community, it’s been incredible what’s gone on in Florida. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You notice they’re not talking about Florida too much, right? They’re not talking. We get Florida, we get Pennsylvania. You watch.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. You know the wall, the wall is over 400 miles long. It will be finished soon. And they don’t talk about that one anymore either, do they? Don’t talk about it. When you have success, they never talk about it. And you know what’s happening, you know what’s going, right? I mean, other countries are coming in. They’re studying what we’re doing. All over the place, they’re studying because what we’ve done, nobody’s been able to do. Joe Biden has pledged open borders, free healthcare for illegal aliens. No, not for you. No. See, I delayed that a little bit. Free healthcare for illegal aliens. They want to give them more than they give us and deadly sanctuary cities. We believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
The Biden-Harris plan would increase refugees from terrorist nations by a staggering 700% flooding into your towns and cities. I am keeping, if it’s okay with Pennsylvania, I am keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Is that okay?
I passed a ban early on and it ultimately got approved by the United States Supreme Court. But I passed a ban because we want people coming into our country that could love us and come in through merit and all sorts of things. We don’t want people coming into our country that hate us, can’t stand us and want to do harm to our citizens. Okay? So the ban was quite controversial, but it’s had a big impact. It’s had a big impact.
And one of the reasons we’re going to win Minnesota? Ilhan Omar, Ilhan Omar. Although she loves our country very much. She loves our country very much, doesn’t she?
We invested $2.5 trillion in the United States military. We have the finest military, the finest weaponry in the world, all made in the USA with the envy of Russia and China and North Korea. We have the best equipment in the world, rockets and missiles and submarines and everything that we’re building. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it. $2.5 trillion made in the USA. We also passed veterans, we passed for our veterans, VA Choice after 44 years and VA Accountability. Okay. VA Account… That’s where you say you’re fired, get the hell out of here. You’re not treating our vets right. I told you we got the highest rating, the highest approval rating that has ever been given by our vets. 91% approval. Who are the nine percent? Oh, they’ll find somebody within the nine percent. They’ll be on television.
We obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. we eliminated the world’s top terrorists. Soleimani is dead. I recognized the capital of Israel and open the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years, they worked on it for 52 years. And instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East. Good job he’s doing. Good job [inaudible 01:09:08].
A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. And who was a very distinguished person within the Republican party? The late great Abraham Lincoln. Please remember that. He was very presidential. He’s the only one I said, “Maybe I can’t be that presidential,” but he was very presidential when he wore the hat especially, right?
Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already happening. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. You’ve got them, you’ve got them.
With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. Your Second Amendment is gone if I don’t get in. If I don’t get in, your Second Amendment, wave goodbye. And I’ll be sitting home and I’ll be saying, “I told the people of Pennsylvania, you better vote for Trump.” No, your Second Amendment is under siege. That’s right. We put [Amy 01:10:37] on. You’re happy with Amy? Everyone loves Amy. Thank you. You know we do. They don’t talk about that enough. They say it’s the most important thing a president can do.
So at the end of my first term, I will have approximately 300 federal judges, which is a big a big percentage of the Judiciary and three great Supreme Court justices. That’s a lot.
Many presidents have gotten to choose. Hey, whatever happened to packing the court? This guy’s running, he never gave an answer. Maybe he’s smarter than we think. Whatever happened? He never gave the answer. He never said. He said he was going to tell us. We’re running. People are casting votes. You cannot elect somebody that’s going to pack the court and he’s going to pack the court. And he didn’t give us a list of the radical left judges who wants to put on either. So he got away with it. So he got away with it. He just did because the press never pressed him. Right? See, there’s a case. If that were me, I could never, ever get away. He got away with it because the fake news wouldn’t press it. He never talked about packing the court and we’re voting right now. He shouldn’t get a vote unless he tells you because he will destroy this country. That’s a big thing, packing the court. Can you imagine? But they never picked it up.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices. We’re doing favored nations. We’re going to have the lowest prices anywhere in the world. The drug companies hate me so much, ai-ai-ai. They are spending more money on ads than sleepy Joe Biden. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will add the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. NASA. NASA was like an abandoned place, to now it’s the hottest. It’s the hottest place in the world for space. And that goes along with Space Force, doesn’t it? We did Space Force. We never even talked about Space Force on the campaign, but we needed it. When I saw Russia, when I saw China, we needed and we got it approved.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania. I know you well. I know you well. You’re a rowdy bunch today, but that’s okay. It’s rowdy, but it’s rowdy with love. It’s rowdy with love. [inaudible 00:13:44].
Tomorrow, you have the power with your vote to save America. We will never be a socialist nation. That’s what we’re talking about. You’re going to be a large scale version, very large scale, of Venezuela. That’s what happens. It happens every single time. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers. Even grab your boss by the tie and say, “Come on, boss, let’s go. We got to vote. We got to vote.”
For generations, America’s destiny was made, forged and won in places like Bethlehem and Bristol, Easton and Allentown, Pittsburgh and Scranton, right here in Scranton. Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, go out and vote tomorrow. We have made America powerful again. Our military has never been as even close to what it is right now. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you, Pennsylvania.
Thank you Fayetteville and North Carolina. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we are going to win this state and we are going to win four more years in our great White House. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, support our fantastic military, care for our veterans, protect your second amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that wonderful phrase, “Made in the USA.” Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. 33.1% just announced last week. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. It’s a number that we never even thought possible, nobody did. Nobody thought it was possible and we’re going to now even do better than that. It’s going very rapidly.
While foreign nations are in a free fall, you see what’s going on with so many nations in Europe, unfortunately. I say that with sadness. We are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago, under Obama and Biden. You got to remember that, you got to remember that kind of thing. They didn’t do a good job. In fact, if they did, I wouldn’t have runned. If they did, I wouldn’t be here right now. They did a bad job. And Obama, he went out yesterday with Biden. They got like 14 people, they didn’t have too many. They didn’t have too good a crowd and we have five of these today. Five. We have some big ones. Thank you.
[crosstalk 00:10:01].
Thank you. Thank you very much.
[crosstalk 00:10:06].
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you and I love you, too, and I appreciate that. We appreciate it.
[crosstalk 00:10:16].
I was thinking coming in because I watch these fake polls, everyone, no matter if we’re up by 10, if we know we’re going to win easily, he’s down by one point, he’s down by one… I just watch this fake stuff and I’m saying to myself, you know, we’ve been under a phony, fake hoax investigation for three years, nothing but bad and really corrupt publicity from these people. And I say-
[crosstalk 00:10:47].
I wonder what the difference would have been had it been legit, had it been legit. And it turned out to be just the opposite. They were the ones who committed the crimes, not us. But I wonder what it would have been. It probably would have been a little bit easier, but you know the good news, we’re going to win anyway. We’re going to shove it.
[crosstalk 00:11:06].
We’re going to win anyway. I wonder what it would’ve been. I wonder what it would’ve been if all of the nonsense wasn’t brought up.
[crosstalk 00:11:14] four more years, four more years, four more years-
Thank you very much.
Four more years, four more years, four more years-
Thank you very much. Looking tremendous in Florida, so of course, they don’t mention that. It’s Florida. We are looking good. We’re really looking good all over in the real polls, not the Fox polls. Those Fox polls… There’s somebody at Fox who doesn’t like me very much, I can tell you. They are the phoniest polls and they were almost as bad four years ago. Actually, they were worse, but you get some of these pollsters, they work magic. And the amazing thing is, they hang onto their jobs. They do horribly. Look at what they did last… I had nine states and I had to win them all and they said I was going to lose all nine. This is four years ago. I was going to lose all night. It’s going to be very short evening for Donald Trump. And the polls said decisively, “I was going to lose all nine.” And that was the day before and I won all nine. No, I won them all.
[crosstalk 00:12:20].
Or I wouldn’t be here right now. No, I won all nine. They said we’re going to lose all nine and it was quite depressing as I turned on the television, let’s see how we did, he won Florida, he won South Carolina. [inaudible 00:12:32]. No, but thank you.
[crosstalk 00:12:35].
And then they said they’re getting rid of the guy, like at Fox, I heard they were getting rid of that pollster and they kept him and they have others they kept. And you wonder what kind of a business that is? You wonder what kind. We have a case where in Wisconsin, we’re one up and I left there a couple of days ago. We had a rally, you wouldn’t believe it. Packed. Just packed. Just like last night, like here, but like last night, this was the section I wanted to come. This is considered a small, beautiful, cute little wonderful section-
[crosstalk 00:13:07].
And they asked me and I said, “I want to be there.” No, and every vote counts. It’s very important. We had something last night in Miami. You would not have believed it. I don’t know who saw it on television. I don’t know, but you look at some of these results in Wisconsin, whether I’m up one or down one it’s right in that thing. I think we’re going to win Wisconsin because we have a lot of people that say, We don’t want to talk to you,” and then they go vote for Trump. The hidden voter or whatever they call them. Somebody said, “They’re the shy voters.” My people are not shy. They’re not shy.
[crosstalk 00:13:41].
But in Wisconsin, so they said, ABC News, which is in my opinion, corrupt, but they’re all corrupt. ABC News, Washington Post, which is basically lobbyists, as far as I’m concerned for Amazon, it’s just a lobbyist. They didn’t say like, he’s two down, three down, four down, a fake poll. They said, “Trump is 17 points down in Wisconsin.” I could lose it. I could win it. I don’t know how I’m not, I did a lot of good things for Wisconsin, but let’s say it’s even and I call up a great pollster, John, and say, “John, let me ask you a question.” I think we’re one up in Wisconsin, but ABC, Washington Post, they did the same thing four years ago, if you remembered that, very close to the election, they said, we’re down 12. And then we won, but we were down 12 and it’s disheartening.
It’s called suppression. What it does is it suppresses people. They say, “Well, listen, we love the president, but if he can’t win…” But they did it four years ago and we complained bitterly with a very good lawyer. I had very good lawyers in those days. We complained very bitterly and they changed it right before the election. I think it was one. We’re down one. They took it from 12 to 1 in about 15 seconds. And I realized, I said, “This is a phony business,” but now they come down and it says 17 down in Wisconsin, 17.
I called John, John McLaughlin, he’s like the dean, he’s a great guy and he’s been very good with me. He said, “We’re going to win,” four years ago. He said, “We’re going to win easily this one.” He’s probably the biggest and the best. I said, “John, let me ask you a question. ABC, Washington Post came out with a poll. It said I was 17 down. I’m not 17 down. I might be one down or I might be two up, but I’m not 17 down. What’s going on? Why don’t they make it [inaudible 00:15:43] have to live after that? They have to do other events. Why don’t they make it three or four or two or five or something?”
He said, “They can’t do that because they want you to lose and if you’re two or three or four, everyone’s going to go vote. They want to make sure that your people don’t vote and when you’re 17 down, people say, ‘I just can’t waste my time. I’m not going to stand on line.'” And I said, “Isn’t that sick?” And he said, “He knows some of the people and they’re very smart. They’re very brilliant. They’re smart people.” He said, “But if they made it five down or four down or six down even, so they make it something that’s so bad, 17 down.” I said, “Isn’t that a shame? I want to tell that story. Do you mind?” He said, “I don’t care. That’s the way it is.” It’s crooked stuff.
The Fox polls are horrible. Every time I have a Fox poll, it’s horrible. I like some of the things on Fox, certainly Sean and Laura, and Tucker’s been great lately.
[crosstalk 00:00:16:42].
And Fox and Friends in the morning is great.
[inaudible 00:16:46]. I find Harris to be great, Harris Faulkner to be really good. She has been very good over a period of time. The great Lou Dobbs, he’s been fantastic. Jeanine, how do we Jeanine?
Look, we have some great people that support us. [Jesse 00:17:07] has been great. Pete [inaudible 00:17:09] has been great. And I don’t want to mention, you know there are a lot of people. Look, we have a lot, but it’s 90% negative, everything, everything, but so think of that. I said, “17,” and he gave me an answer. I just thought it was so incredible. I said, “I got to tell that answer.” I hope I haven’t bored you, but I thought it was interesting. [inaudible 00:17:28].
[crosstalk 00:17:30].
I thought it was interesting. To me, it was interesting and I have like five of these to do today, so let’s get going.
[crosstalk 00:17:41].
And I appreciate you being here. We had some monsters last night. We had some little rough weather. It wasn’t like this. In Michigan, we had a slightly cold day with the wind blowing at 40 miles an hour in my face. And you’re lucky you have a President that doesn’t need a teleprompter. Good memory.
[crosstalk 00:18:06].
I would have been in big trouble. There was no way you could hold paper. There was no way you could do, you were just… And my guys set it up where the wind was right smack in my face and I was looking at that flag from the plane and I said, “Oh no, here we go again.” But actually, the flag must be a very high quality silk because it’s not that windy, but yesterday, that was not an easy day. We had some very cold stops. And Biden and Harris, Kamala, Kamala. You want her?
[crosstalk 00:18:41].
You want her as your first woman president? I don’t think so.
[crosstalk 00:18:46].
And the radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send our nation into a depression. Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increase your regulations, close down your factory, send your jobs overseas. That’s what he’s-
… close down your factory, send your jobs overseas. That’s what he’s been doing all his life. Him and his group, destroy the suburbs, dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private health insurance, 180 million people have great health insurance. Shred your Second Amendment, confiscate your guns and indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies. Biden has vowed to abolish the American oil and natural gas industries and ban fracking. For a year and a half, he said it. Then all of a sudden he goes to Pennsylvania. “No, I never said that.” And the fake news doesn’t do anything about it. Biden’s energy ban will send every state into crushing poverty from North Carolina to Michigan, to Pennsylvania. As long as I’m president, we will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas.
And we will remain energy independent. Sleepy Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars, in countries that most of you have never even heard of. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA … and they’re all coming home, don’t worry about it. I said it.
He was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. North Carolina lost 50% of all manufacturing jobs after those Biden betrayals. And now he says, “Oh, I’m going to …” he’s trying to follow my policy. He’s trying to follow my policy. He’s not going to do my policy has been doing this for 47 years plus, and for eight years as vice president, which is only three and a half years ago. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who raked in millions from China while giving them your jobs. He’s a corrupt politician, you see it. Now they say the laptop Schiff, that watermelon head, Schiff. “That laptop was produced by Russia.” Here we go again, Russia. Russia, Russia. Here we go again. Can you imagine what they must think of it? These people are crazy. No, it was produced by where’s Hunter? That’s right, it was produced by [inaudible 00:02:39]. No, Schiff knows. He a psycho in many ways, but he knows, it’s a total con game. I had to put up with it for three years and it affects it. When you see nothing but negative television every night, every night, every night. And then they find totally no collusion after wasting $48 million, 18 people, think of it. And then it’s no collusion, but then you have to run. But you’ve had three years of horrible publicity and they did it. I mean, they did it. They were the criminals. Hillary was a criminal. She deleted her emails. People go to jail for that.
These are criminals. These are criminals. And say it any way you want to do it. But we took the brunt, then we caught him spying in my campaign and trying to overthrow a duly elected president of the United States. And that was before I even knew. That was while I was running, I didn’t even know. I’d hear these things, “Sir.” This is before I got elected. Guys would come up to me every once in a while. “Sir. Do you have anything to do with Russia?” I said, “No. Why do you ask?” “Oh, I was just curious.”
Because it was like this thing floating around. Then they come up again, “Sir, are you sure you don’t have anything to do with Russia?” I said, “I have nothing to do with Russia. What the hell are you talking?” And you hear it four or five times, then you get into office and they come up with this scheme and this plot, it was a plot to overthrow the government of the United States. And then we have people that just don’t act fast. It’s just unbelievable. We have so much information. We have the whole thing, and Obama was involved and Biden was involved. They were involved, but let’s see what happens. People should move more quickly. In 2016, North Carolina voted to fire this corrupt political establishment. And you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician is because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for his people. Thank you. Thank you.
Get out and vote. That’s all I ask, is take a little time and vote. We got to win this state. I think we win this state, we win Pennsylvania, we’re going to win Florida. We win Pennsylvania and you, were going to win the whole thing. We’re going to win the whole thing.
And we’ll send them a signal like they’ve never seen before. This has not happened to them. “Big tech is so powerful. You can’t beat big tech.” They’re saying this. And I see it on Twitter. Trending, trending. It’s not trending. They put the most boring thing. Anything bad about me. Number one in the world on trend. Boring stuff. As opposed to affairs, scandals, that they didn’t even put that stuff up. It’s always Trump, two, three, four, or five items. It’s a fix. It’s a fix. This is a smart guy. We have his name. Everybody knows who he is. And I’m not talking about the primary. I’m talking about people that work. They take stuff out of a hat. “Let’s see? This is bad about Trump. Let’s make it worse. Okay, we’ll make it worse.” Number one trend in the whole world. No, that’s not stuff that trends, but these are phony guys. They fix the elections and you know what?
They should be subject to campaign violations because they’re an arm of the Democrat National Committee. They work together. They work on messaging together. The Democrats, the fake news media, they’re the worst. IN fact, these are fake people. And if I’ve done one thing, it’s to expose the dishonesty in the media.
And not everybody, but a big, vast majority, a vast majority. Not everybody. Look at us, we catch Hunter and Joe cheating. We catch them stealing millions of dollars. They refuse to write a story. Could you imagine if I got three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife? Could you imagine? Somebody gave me three and a half million bucks? Somebody gave me $20. They impeached me because they made a perfect phone call to the head of Ukraine. I never met the gentlemen. “Congratulations on your win. If you see anything corrupt, please call the attorney general of the United States.” And we have a corruption agreement with them because it’s been a very corrupt country. I actually have an obligation. Now, of course they impeached before they found out, before I decided to release the phone call. Isn’t it lucky that I had that call transcribed?
Can you imagine? Now, they couldn’t do it. They didn’t know what to do. Crazy Nancy said, “This isn’t impeachable.” They said, ” You’re right, but let’s go through with it anyway. Maybe we’ll get lucky.” Because she didn’t know about the call. When she read the call, she said, “Ge didn’t do anything wrong. How did you get me into this? You shifty Schiff? How did you do it”
Jerry Nadler, I’ve been fighting this guy for 25 years on the West side of Manhattan. Jerry Nadler, he’s a beauty, isn’t he? How did he get me into this? Well, let’s just keep going forward. It’s a disgrace. And I will say this for the Republicans, 197 or 697 to nothing, we won. And in the Senate, 52 and a half to one half, we lost a half a vote, I wonder who that could have been. But sleepy Joe Biden is bought and paid for by China. They gave the son a billion and a half dollars to manage. That means it’s going to make millions of dollars a year, but he does know anything about investment. Didn’t know anything at all about energy. He got $183,000 a month on energy. Think of that. Think of that, $183,000. I called a friend of mine on Wall Street, “Is just a normal fee.”
He said, “No, maybe the most abnormal fee I’ve ever seen in my whole life. I’ve been doing this for 25 years.” He’s the biggest guy. But they’re bought and paid for. They got the money and then they were going for the big one in China. They wrote a letter to very big powerful man within the communist party. And where Hunter asked for $10 million a year, as he was going to recommend, he was going to talk. Here’s a guy didn’t have a job, got thrown out of the Navy. He got thrown out of the Navy. He didn’t have a job. Biden becomes vice president. And this kid is like a vacuum cleaner going all over the world, following his father, picking up the scraps.
No he’s following his dad, picking up scraps. And then when you find the note where the big man gets 10%, the big man’s Joe Biden. The big man gets 10, then in one case, they said 50%, right? That’s more likely because he wouldn’t do it for 10. Because these people are all hangers on, losers. But that’s the story and it’s in a laptop. And now they say the laptop was made by Russia, therefore it has no credibility. Can you believe this? And so the news, outside of the New York Post, which really I hold in high esteem. They’re a hero paper and they endorsed me.
I got a nice endorsement from, did you say from Pennsylvania yesterday, right? Pittsburgh Gazette. That was nice. Once I got through that first paragraph, it was phenomenal, actually. They said, “We don’t love his personality. We don’t love his tough.” I have to be tough. Look, I’ve been under investigation from before I ever became president. I have to be tough. If I were soft, I wouldn’t be here right now. And they don’t want to say that. I was under a fake investigation by a lot of fake people. Bob Mueller and his crew, the whole thing was a fake scam that should have never been started. And they knew the answer to the first day, but it took him two and a half years to put it down, no collusion, but they knew the answer the first day. So I was under investigation for the first two and a half years. Think of that. And then they say, “He’s tough.” But I’ll take it anyway. I’ll take their endorsement anyway. Because once you get over the first paragraph or two, it says all of the things we’ve done, which are incredible, which are incredible.
And now we’ll have a chance to do it without the cloud. Because I had a cloud hanging over my head, whether we like it or not. And then they say, “He was tough. He fought too hard. He was somewhat crude. He was very, very nasty. His Twitter.” Now, you know what? If I didn’t have social media, I wouldn’t be here. It was the only way I could defend myself. So it was one of those things. But I just wonder, I was thinking, I asked the people on the way, if we have great people, such loyal, great people. Including a man that comes from an area not too far from here, is a good friend of these women who have been here, this is number 64 time for these incredible, beautiful, I think rich women and their husbands are in here someplace.
But they had their husbands. They were at the one last night. That was a big deal, wasn’t it? But this is number 64. I would say I, right?
65.
65. Oh, there’s two more. They come from North Carolina, but we have Mark Meadows comes from North Carolina. And he has been fantastic, he’s done a great job. He’s done a great job. Where is he? He’s probably working, bump, bump, bump with a phone. He’s got two phones instead of one. And he’s not going to break it up with a hammer like Hillary did. He’s going to throw it away.
He’s done a fantastic job. And he loves this state and he loves North Carolina. And I specifically said, “I want somebody from North Carolina and give me Meadows.” Now I knew three years ago. I said, “We got to get Meadows in here.” Big tech, big media, big donors and powerful special interests are desperate for sleepy Joe to win. They want them to win. I’ll tell you who wants him to win, China. They will own our country because they own him, they control him and they know he will always be there to do their bidding. He’ll always be there. He’s a corrupt politician. I don’t care, I’ll say it. And I say it, everybody knows it’s true. Can you imagine? Big tech refuses to put anything in. They took the New York Post down for two weeks because they won’t let anyone write.
If you put out a little tweet and say that Biden is corrupt, they will knock out your whole account. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this and you notice, it is outside of what I say, it is indeed fading away. Because you can’t have a scandal if nobody writes about it. So we have the fake news not writing about it. And you have the big tech not writing. So, how can you have a scandal? Nobody’s allowed to talk. It’s called suppression. We don’t have freedom of the press. We probably haven’t had it for a long time, but we don’t have … they say, “Freedom of the press. The American way.” We have suppression by the press. That’s what it is. What beautiful words I should have done the speech this way, it would have been much more interesting.
No, but seriously, we have suppression by the press. This is not freedom. It really is, it’s the exact opposite of freedom of the press if you think about it. Every corrupt force in American life that is responsible for cruel betrayals that hurt our family and all of the people that we love, they’re supported by Biden and they donate to Biden. I could have been a much bigger fundraiser than him, but I didn’t want to call every head of a Wall Street firm, every head of the oil companies that we’ve made rich anyway. I did a great job, we’re energy independent, that’s not so bad, first time.
The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they support sleepy Joe Biden, because they get anything they want. And he took in $300 million last month. You think he made any deals? No, I don’t think so. The career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories, they support sleepy Joe. The open borders lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs, gangs and crimes. The people that wanted to stop the wall, even though it knew it works. It’s almost finished by the way, be finished very soon.
But the people that wanted to stop it, even though they knew full well, it worked. Remember they said, “No, no, we don’t want a wall. Walls are obsolete. We want drones.” Okay, good. Drones flying to watch the people pour into our country. They want drones, let’s have drones. The far left Democrats that ruined our public schools, depleted our inner cities, defunded our police and demeaned your sacred faith and values. They support sleepy, Joe Biden. You can’t even go to your churches. You can’t even go to your church and your governor of North Carolina, you got to open up your state.
You got to get your governor, I hope you’re going to vote for Dan who’s good. You got to get your state open. Don’t worry about it, on November 4th they’ll announced your state is opening. November 4th, north Carolina will be opened on November 4th. Right after the election. Because they want us to look bad. They don’t care about people. They want us to look bad. They want to try and steal an election.
The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, our heritage, our heroes, they support sleepy Joe. Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left wing extremists, they all support Joe Biden. They always like to blame it on the right. Do you ever notice? “These were right wing.” It’s very rare. It’s rare. It’s you got bad on every side, but they always like to blame the right. It always starts off with the right, the right. This election comes down to a simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the arrogant, corrupt, ruthless, and selfless political class? Or do you want to be governed by the American people themselves? You want to be represented by a career politician who hates you, or by an outsider who will defend-
Who hates you or by an outsider who will defend you like you have never been defended before. I didn’t need this job. I had a very nice life, but I love what we’re doing for our country. Nobody’s done so much. Nobody, no administration and I never even had a challenge on this from the fake news. Normally, if you say something slightly off, they make a big deal. No administration, president has done more in the first three and a half years then we have, our military we rebuilt, our tax cut, our regulation cuts, Space Force. It’s just a thing like Space Force. I never even talked about Space Force during the campaign. I did more than I actually talked about during the campaign. Thank you. Thank you very much. I thought this was a small little cute area. This is a small little cute area. When I came in, I’m watching Fox and a gentlemen and anchor said, “They have a small crowd of about 2000, 2,500. Nah, I knew. I knew.” It’s an incredible thing. This is a lot more than that. This is a lot of people. This is a lot more than I wanted to do because [inaudible 00:39:51]. I mean, my granddaughter is named Carolina. Do you know that? And we’ll give South Carolina some credit too. They’ve been waiting. Is that okay? I want to get your permission. South Carolina is great. They are great people too. A vote for Biden is a vote to hand the keys to government over to people who despise you and who want to rob your children of their American dream. That’s what they’re doing. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist, communist, socialist, the wealthy liberal hypocrites who want to silent, censor, cancel and punish you. If you want your children to be safe and remember this, against… I’ll put it very simply, against the second amendment.
If you’re pro-life, you can forget about it. Tremendous support. Do you see these people in California? They have lines of hundreds of miles of cars and tractors in Iowa and boats, five or 6,000 boat in lakes and ocean with the flags. If you want your values to be respected, if you want to be treated with honor and dignity and respect, then I am asking for you to go out tomorrow or sooner, but I don’t know. You tend to like to vote on Election Day, right? We all do and vote. This is going to be the most important election in my opinion in the history of our country. I never thought I was going to say it. If you have told me, I was going to say that four years ago, I would’ve said you’re crazy, but it’s the most important because I’ve always said we will never be a socialist nation and that’s what they’re trying [inaudible 00:41:47].
And remember what I said. Four years ago I said, “I am your voice and we will make America great again,” and that’s what we’re doing. And if we didn’t get hit by the China plague, now we’re building it up again and we’re doing it at record clip and record numbers and at a much faster pace than any other country in the world, but we got hit by the plague from China and we will never forget it. With God is my witness, I will never let you down. For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me because they know I don’t answer to them, I answer to you. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment, we will dethrone the failed political class and we will drain the Washington swamp and we will save the American dream. This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown. He wants to have you locked down.
I don’t even know if he knows to be honest. They ask him a question. I don’t think he has a clue. You can vote whoever you want, but I don’t think he has a clue. You know it, the media knows it. The media laughs behind his back and then they say, “He did brilliantly today.” No, he didn’t do brilliantly. He didn’t do brilliantly in his prime, and he’s not in his prime anymore. Or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and we’re doing very well with the vaccines. They’ll be distributed very soon. We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. It will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the China plague once and for all. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state. Looking again, that’s more Kamala. Remember when they said this is the Harris-Biden administration, right? I never did that with Mike. And you know what? Mike Pence never came to me and said, “Do you mind if I put my name first every once and a while?” Well, no. And by the way, he’s been a great Vice President.
Some people say it was a perfect combination. It was. He’s a great guy. He’s going to be in your state in a little while. Locking you in your home while letting far left writers roam free. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Easter, no Christmas, no 4th of July and no future for America’s youth. Other than that, it’s fine. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family and freedom to live your life, that you go and cast your ballot for President Trump. And if you remember the catastrophe. Joe Biden, he’s telling us how to run things right? This guy never ran a thing successfully. He always said horrible things about him when he was in the… Obama didn’t even want to endorse him. He wouldn’t endorse him. Even after he won, Obama said, “No way.” How long did it take him after he won? It took forever. Obama couldn’t believe it. I don’t think Obama is much better. You want to know the truth. Joe Biden personally ran the swine flu, right? The swine flu, H1N1, which he can never remember. He never says it. He says it and then goes N1H1 and I said, “No.” He failed horribly and he was a laughing stock all over Washington. They were laughing at him. And his own Chief of Staff said he was absolutely terrible.
They did a terrible job. Now he’s telling us how to do it. I should have closed earlier. There’s only one problem. He’s on record all over the place, knocking me two and a half months later for closing too soon and closing it all. He said, “Don’t close.” He’s xenophobic. He’s xenophobic. I didn’t like people from China is what he’s saying. It’s so wrong. I think they’re incredible people. I do. I think they’re incredible people, but he said xenophobic. And then he runs for office. He said, “He should have closed earlier.” And you know what? The press never covers that. The only time I get it covered is if I happen to be on live television. I’ll say it again and again. And when I do say it, they try and turn it off, “Let’s go to commercial break right now. I think I know what’s coming.” These are really bad people. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said that Biden has been wrong actually on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades. He had no respect for him whatsoever.
I’m sure he endorsed him because he’s probably looking for something like everybody else, but I don’t think any of them are going to get anything because I think we’re going to have one of the greatest victories tomorrow, but you don’t have to take my word for what a disaster Joe Biden is because it’s the great state of North Carolina. I spent a fortune. See this? See the board? I spent a lot of money on the board. So let’s just take a look at a little roll. Let’s roll it please.
Have you taken a cognitive-
No, I haven’t taken a test. Why the hell would I take a test? Come on man. That’s like saying, “Yo, before you got in this program, if you take a test where you’re taking cocaine or not what do you think? Huh?” Are you a [inaudible 00:09:42].” that’s my little sister, Valerie. And I’m Jill’s husband. Oh no. You switched on me. This is my wife. This is my sister. They switched on me. But I’d tell them, “If you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t black.” There is not a single solitary reason in the world why, why as I said, we shouldn’t be in a position that everybody and that’s my wife, Jill. Hey Jill. I’m Jill’s husband actually.
And [inaudible 00:48:13] was a bad dude and he ran a bunch of bad boys and I did. And back in those days, lots of things have changed. Play the radio, make sure the television… Excuse me. Make sure you have the record player on at night. Make sure the kids hear words. We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created… You know the thing. If you were a quartermaster, you can share and help take care of running the department store thing in the second floor of the ladies’ department. You know what I mean? Well, I’m sick and tired of smart guys. The rapidly rising in with… I don’t know. There’d been no caucus. No, you haven’t. You’re a lying dog-faced pony soldier.
Why attack Sandra? You’re getting nervous man.
What kind of country we’re going to be. Four more years of Georgia… Georgia. Going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. We have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. And by the way, I sit on the stand and they get hot. I got hairy legs that turn blonde in the sun and the kids used to come up and reach in the pool and rub my leg down, so it was [inaudible 00:49:58] and then watched the hair come back up again. They looked at it. So I learned about roaches. I learned about kids jumping on my lap and I’ve loved kids jumping on my lap. Barack and I think it’s a right for people that have [inaudible 00:50:12]. I laid an effective strategy to mobilize truant [inaudible 00:00:50:16].
Don’t do it. Don’t don’t do it to yourselves. Our country has such potential. You can’t do that to our country. He’s not mentally equipped. He just isn’t to be your president. He’s not equipped to be your president. And I say it because he’s not a nice person, never was a nice person, but he was never a smart person. He was a touchy feely person, hale and hearty, but not nice. But this is not a man that 25 years ago is not equipped to be your president. And he ran many times, numerous times. We called him 1% Joe. Think of it. And now he’s working on about 50% and he ends up winning the nomination because of Elizabeth Warren. Elizabeth Warren gave him the numb. All she had to do is drop out and he would have lost on… I mean, then we would have had crazy Bernie. But at least Bernie, they had a great energetic base. It’s a small base, but energetic, but this is not a man that should be your president. We have tremendous potential.
Our country has tremendous potential and we can’t blow it. We can’t blow it because there’s no way to describe that. And that’s like 1% .we could keep you out here all day. Much of it happened yesterday and the day before yesterday, oh, he had some beauties yesterday, but we can’t do this. And you know what’s going to happen? Kamala will be put in that position very quickly. And she’s more liberal than crazy Bernie. She’s more liberal. In fact, she makes him look like a strict conservative. Joining us today are some incredible people, incredible friends and warriors. And I want to tell you, I just looked at a poll and he’s up in the poll, Senator Thom Tillis. He’s up.
That’s great. I’m good. I’m very happy with that. We got to get him and he’s a good man, a good man. And your wife was great the other night. We had a great rally the other night and you are well-represented, let me tell you, very well. Congratulations. Well, let’s save that for tomorrow or the next day, or as the Supreme Court would say, “Sometime into the future.” What a ruling. What a ruling. What a horrible thing that they’ve done. Do you know that puts our country in danger? Do you know what can happen during that long period of time Pennsylvania? The long period of time, do you know what can happen? Number one, cheating can happen like you’ve never seen. This is their dream and they are known for it. The Philadelphia area is known for it, but what can happen during that long period of time is just a disgrace. Get the ballots in and have them in long before the third and have them counted before the third and have an election where we can say to the world that we know who won and we know who lost. I’m just so tired of some of these horrible political decisions that are being made. It’s a shame. It’s a shame. And I won’t get into it too much, but I’m going to start getting into it because they’re hurting our country very badly.
Representative warrior, David Rouzer. David, thank you. You’re doing a great job. Appreciate it. Congress, we have a friend over there. Richard Hudson. Where’s Richard? Richard Hudson, Congressman, and another great guy. Great guys. Did a fantastic job and a friend of mine and somebody that’s done an incredible job also in Congress, Dan Bishop. Thanks Dan. How you’ve been? You’re doing a good job. He came in through the system. He won a race. It was a tough race, right? We worked together on it and he had no choking him. He started off a little behind to put it nicely and he ended up winning and he one solid and how are you doing on this one? Good? I don’t have to help you as much. He’s going to win. He’s going to win. He should win. He’s a great Congressman. All of them, all three. Thank you very much fellas. A man that hopefully you’re going to recognize for, I guess he doesn’t have the funds that the other one has. I see commercials all the time for your governor that has you in a total lockdown, but Dan Forest would be a phenomenal governor, a phenomenal governor. He did have a surprise there. That could be a big, beautiful gift to North Carolina. A gift. That’s not bad. Hey Dan, that’s not bad huh? Beautiful. Dan, that’s a very impressive applause you got. I have to be honest.
Don’t kid yourself. That is like a poll. It’s like a poll, except instead of interviewing 73 people, they have thousands of people here. Much more than the 2000. He’s got a nice 2000 people and I don’t think so. Well, last night in Miami, you want to see a crowd, you couldn’t even see the end of it. I’ve never seen anything like it. There’s such spirit. I’ve never seen spirit like this. At North Carolina GOP chair, somebody doing an incredible job if we win tomorrow. By the way, if we don’t win tomorrow, they’ll say, “How’s Michael Watley doing?” I say, “Not good at all. He didn’t do a good job.” Michael Watley, are we doing okay, Michael? Yes? Get out. Get out to vote Mike. Get them out.
Get out. Get out to vote, Mike, get them out. Get out to vote. Thanks, Michael and you are doing a good job. I also want to recognize Medal of Honor recipient, Command Sergeant Major Bob Patterson. Where’s Bob? Where’s Bob? Where is Bob? Whoa! He looks good. He looks good. Wow. Your husband. Whoa. That’s a good looking couple.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Wow. That’s some incredible honor. That’s some incredible honor, I’ll tell you what. There’s no greater honor. And are you proud of your husband? But he’s proud of you too. Oh, she’s proud of Trump, look at that. Thank you. I knew I liked her. I knew I liked her. Thank you both very much. Great honor. That’s the highest honor you can get.
Former prisoner of war and Vietnam veteran, Captain Ken Wells, a real hero. Where is Ken? A real hero. Thank you. Thank you.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Real tough one. Look at him, he’s tough. He’s a tough looking guy. Thank you. Thank you very much. Beautiful. You look great. Thank you. These are great people.
And World War II hero and D-Day veteran, very, very brave, they say, Harold Frank. Hi, Harold. You’re looking good. Thank you, Harold. Thank you, Harold. Thank you. They said he’s a brave one. Thank you, Harold, you’re looking good. These guys look good. I don’t know. They go through all that, they come out, they look better than all of us. I don’t know. Something about the war, something about brave people, right? Military spouse, and don’t ever underestimate that is where it all begins. Somebody who’s incredible. Donna Dotson. Donna. Where’s Donna? Thank you, Donna thank you very much. Thank you, Donna. Great to have you. Thank you very much. And retired Sergeant Major Karen De la Vega. Karen, thank you. Thank you, Karen. Great people. Thank you all for your extraordinary service and it’s an honor to have you with us, really is, thank you very much.
For 47 years, Joe Biden, viciously, repeatedly attacked black Americans. He decimated the black middle-class and called young black men super predators. To every black American vote for Trump. This is your one and only chance to show sleepy Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, to insult you, to jail you and to betray you. I am fighting for you and got criminal justice reform, prison reform, Opportunity Zones with Tim Scott and funding for historically black colleges and universities. I got it done. Nobody else got it done.
And with the exception of, and I use the word possibly, possible exception, but I could use it and maybe I won’t, I’ll keep it a little bit less controversial, with the exception of Abraham Lincoln, there has been no president that’s done more for the black community than Donald Trump. Nobody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in US history. Joe Biden has pledged to open borders. He’s actually talking about taking down the wall. Can you believe? “Let’s take down the wall and let everybody pour into our country.” He wants to take down. I know he said it. I don’t know. Maybe, but he did say let’s take down the wall. One of the biggest projects that we’ve ever done, you know, it’s a tremendous project. We’re up to over 400 miles. We’re going to be finished very soon. Over 400 miles. Designed to the specifications of the Border Patrol, who are great.
Mass Amnesty wants to give them free healthcare. This is for illegal aliens and wants to keep deadly sanctuary cities. Your state has a sanctuary city. You know that, right? You have a sanctuary city, right? A very big one, actually, that doesn’t work very well. We believe our city should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not criminals aliens. The Biden-Harris plan would increase refugees from terrorist nations by a staggering 700%. This has been a great term. This has been a great term. No thank you, fellas. I’m not interested. I’m keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. If I have the approval of North Carolina, I will keep them out. We’re going to keep them out. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. We have the greatest equipment, greatest people. 2.5 trillion. You think that was easy to get from the Democrats? Actually the wall was even tougher. The wall was tougher but we got. Do you notice once I got the wall started and got all the funding, won all the court cases against the Democrats, the press never talks about it anymore. They don’t talk about it. We had the best statistics, the best…
And can you imagine during the pandemic, because Mexico’s very heavily unfortunately infected and it was a good thing that we had it up that’s why the numbers are so good. We also passed for our great vets, VA Choice and VA Accountability. Nobody thought that could happen. We obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We killed the leader of ISIS, al- Baghdadi is dead. Last week, I visited Fort Bragg where I presented the Presidential Unit Citation to the special forces team that achieved that historic victory. It was good. And we are keeping the name Fort Bragg, you do know that, right? Do you agree. They want cancel culture. We won two world wars out of Fort Bragg and we have other forts and we’re keeping it. We won two world wars out of Fort Bragg. And now they say, “Let’s change the name. Let’s change the name of Fort Bragg. We’ll pick somebody else. Do you have any good suggestions?” No, no. We have to keep. We have to keep. It’s our culture. It’s our heritage. So many victories, so many victories out of Fort Bragg. We also eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I recognize the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years they tried to get it. And instead of endless war in the Middle East we’re forging peace. They are lined up to come in.
I said, “How did Obama and all of those that came before him do?” They told me they all used the same method. I said, “Really, I’m going to go the opposite method.” And it worked very nicely. No blood in the sand, no cost. Three very powerful countries already signed. We have many others. They’re standing on line, standing on line. And we’re bringing our troops back home. Our troops are coming back home. They’re coming back home. 19 years is enough. They serve as policemen. I said, “No, you have to get your own police department, I’m sorry.”
A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China, which has already started. Can you imagine Biden saying we’re not going to our reliance? I mean, can you imagine? “We are going to end our reliance on you.” “Hey, hey we gave your son a billion and a half. What the hell are you telling me?” Okay, well, I don’t know, Senator, I think it would be tough for him, right? They wanted 10 million a year for his services, right? And then you say, “No, I’m not going to deal with China anymore.” Or “I’m going to be tough on China.”
I’ve taken out many, many billions of dollars. We never did this in this country, not 25 cents. I just gave $28 billion from China to our farmers because they targeted our farmers. 28 billion and we had plenty of money left over, which went into the US Treasury. Thank you. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults for law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty and free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength.
We’re the envy of every country in the world. Our military now has the greatest equipment all made in the USA, but we have the greatest equipment in the world. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency and lower drug prices even more. We instituted a favored nation’s laws. We pay by far the most in the world. We are going to pay now the least in the world and nobody can believe I did it. And big pharma does not like me too much. They are not so happy with me. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman in the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.
We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of North Carolina. I do.
And your tobacco growers are in good shape, by the way, please let them know, okay. Do you have any tobacco growers, please? They’re in good shape. They work hard. They were treated very rough. Tomorrow, you have the power to do so much for our country. You have the power to vote. So go out and vote. Unless you’re going to vote for somebody other than me, in which case, [inaudible 01:10:12]. Do you ever hear these politicians get up and they say, “You have the power to vote and it makes no difference if you vote for me or my opponent,” they’re such liars. Liars. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, get your boss, grab him by the tie, say, “Let’s go boss.” And get out and vote.
From Greensboro to Charlotte, from Wilmington to Raleigh, from Asheville to right here in Fayetteville. Fayetteville. I love the name, Fayetteville. We inherit the legacy of American Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great, great, beautiful skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come. You will see that.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of North Carolina, we have made America powerful again, military. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you. Go out and vote.
Thank you. Thank you very much. What a crowd this is. Wow! Well, thank you very much. Hello Georgia. Hello Georgia. Two days. Can you believe it? Two days from now we’re going to win this state again. And we’re going to win four more great years in the White House.
We have done a lot. We’ve done a lot together. It’s been a great relationship with Georgia. Thank you very much. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our police, support our great military, protect your second amendment. [inaudible 00:02:35] Defend religious liberty, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase “Made in the USA.” That’s happening.
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. And it’s heading that way. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%. The fake news did not like talking about that number. We’d beat the number from 1952 and more than doubled it; much more than doubled it. They don’t love talking about numbers like that. They can’t believe it. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. And while foreign nations are in a free fall, we are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world.
A recent Gallup poll, just out, found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than four years ago with Sleepy Joe and Obama. If Biden and Kamala. How about Kamala? I don’t think so. That’s not going to be your first woman president; that’s not going to happen. She’s further left than Crazy Bernie. He’s like a conservative compared to her. And the radical left gain power, the economy will collapse, and our country will go into a steep, mark my… well, we’re not going to have to worry about it okay. Steep depression. We don’t have to worry about it.
I shouldn’t even be here, they say I have Georgia made, but you know what? I said, “I promised we have to be here.” David. No, they said, “Sir, you don’t have to come to Georgia. We have it made. It’s won, it’s well.” By the way, just go out and vote. Okay. Just go out and vote.
(chanting).
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. No, they said this morning, “Sir, honestly, we can skip Georgia…” I’ve done four of these, I’m going to Florida for another one. You believe this? Wonderful. Oh, and I had such an easy life before this. It was so…
But you know I’m happy, you know why? No administration, no president has done anything near what we’ve done in the first three and a half years. How about it? We’re helping our country. We’re rebuilding our military. It’s rebuilt. Two and a half trillion dollars. We’ve cut your taxes. The largest tax cut in history. His is going to be the… Explain this to me. His campaign is “We will raise your taxes more than any administration has ever raised it.” I don’t know. Somehow, David, that doesn’t play very well, does it? Huh? He wants to increase your taxes by 4 trillion dollars. Massively increase your regulations again. We cut your regulations more than any administration has ever done. More than any, whether it’s four years, eight years or in one case, more, closed down your factories, send your jobs overseas, destroy the suburbs.
Will the women of the suburbs please vote for President Trump? [inaudible 00:06:15] And I keep hearing from the fake news, “The women of the suburbs don’t like Donald Trump.” And I’m saying to myself, “Well, I’m giving them safety, protection, and I terminated a regulation that will ruin the suburbs and ruin the value of your house. And you’ll be fleeing the suburbs. And no, I did a lot for the suburbs, I’ll tell you.” Thank you.
(chanting)
That’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. I made a speech a couple of days ago and I said, “Women of the suburbs, please love me.” And they took it on CNN, they said, “He is begging for their support.” Women of the suburbs, I’ve done a lot. You do not want to have a project built next to your house. No, we’ve done a lot.
They want to terminate religious liberty, eliminate school choice, outlaw private health care. Would you say it’s windy enough tonight? Would you say? It’s wonderful. I said, “Is there much wind?” “No, about 25 or 30 miles an hour, Sir.” Oh, that’s wonderful.
Shred the second amendment, take away your guns and indoctrinate your children with hateful anti-American lies. Biden has vowed to abolish American oil, fracking, natural gas. You ever see a guy fracking? For a year and a half, he’s going, “There will be no fracking. There will be…” Then he goes to Pennsylvania. They say, “What about fracking?” And he goes, “What should I say?” Well, they say, “You’re going to have to totally change your stance because they have a million jobs, right? It’s a big part of Pennsylvania. It’s a big part of Texas. It’s a big part of this country. And you’re going to have to change.” So now he goes, first speech, he goes, “No, we are in total favor of fracking.” And the fake news doesn’t even ask him a question about it. I don’t think I could get away with it. I don’t think so.
How about the other day? He walks past the press, the media, the fake news. And he walks past, “Sir, what flavor ice cream is that?” He’s walking out of an ice cream store. “It’s vanilla and chocolate.” They don’t ask me questions like that.
It’ll cause massive layoffs, exploding energy prices and crippling blackouts, just like they have in California. They’re doing great with California energy, right? They have brownouts; they don’t want to call it blackouts, but it’ll end up being blackouts very soon. Biden’s energy ban will send every state from Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania into crushing poverty. And you know that, the whole thing is ridiculous. The Green New Deal AOC plus three, I don’t even think they ever took… Did they take even an environmental course? Ilhan Omar is a part of that deal. No, no, no. She loves our country very much. As luck… that’s why I’m going to win Minnesota because of her.
As long as I’m president, we will remain number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We are now number one. And something you haven’t heard very much of for ever, we are totally energy independent, isn’t that nice?
I don’t think we’re going to let them turn that around on us. People that have no clue, especially Biden, he truly doesn’t have a clue. Our opponent’s agenda is a war on workers, a war on faith, and a war on our great police. Biden says he’s running as a proud Democrat. Well, of course he said, “I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate.” And I said, “He’s kidding, isn’t he?” But then he did it a second time. And I’m running as a proud American, okay?
(chanting).
Thank you. Thank you very much. This is a lot of people here, I’ll tell you. We always have a lot of people, we really do. It’s like the spirit… wait till you see what’s going to happen with the Great Red Wave. And you know, I don’t know if you’ve been watching the results, but if you look at Florida, we’re looking very good. If you look at Iowa, we’re looking very good. If you look at North Carolina, we are looking great. If you look at Pennsylvania, we are looking very good. Oh, they’re going to be, they’re going to be some heads that are exploding.
It would have been nice as… You know what would have been really nice though? If our Supreme Court could have ruled that everything has to be counted by the evening of our election, our grand election day. Wouldn’t that be nice? Instead of waiting around six days, eight days, nine days, giving them more time. If they want more time, let them put their ballots in early. They don’t have to wait till the end. Let’s give them an extra three days, and let’s take all the time you want. People want to know and you know, bad things happen in places like Pennsylvania and Nevada. We loved Nevada, but you have a governor there. Bad things can happen. That little intervening… Let’s take plenty of time. No, that’s a terrible ruling for our country. I don’t care. It’s a terrible ruling. It’s a shame.
Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign Wars. Don’t worry, they’re all coming home. They’d been coming home; we’re down to very low numbers. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. That was another great deal we made. What a deal. China was flat-lined for years and years. And then they went like a rocket ship because of that stupid deal. Biden shipped your jobs in factories to China while raking in millions of dollars for him and his family, we find out. The only problem is the news doesn’t want to report it, and big tech doesn’t want to report it.
(chanting).
No, big tech doesn’t want to report it. Do you ever see where they have trending? You know what they do? They take stories about me, if they can find anything bad, and then they make it worse. Trending Donald Trump did this. Trending… The most boring stories, I mean, with all the things happening. With affairs and this and that. They don’t want to hear trending Donald Trump. It’s a whole big hoax. It’s a big tech hoax, but we have some senators right here that are doing a lot about it. A lot about it. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who is bought and owned by China, okay? I mean, how is he going to… and by the way, we’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars.
I mean, how is he going to do it? And by the way, we’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars. And you have farmers, a lot of farmers, I found that out with David, with David Perdue. We went down and they were affected a year and a half ago, very heavily affected by a hurricane. We took care of those farmers. Nobody else would have done it. We took care of those farmers. But you know what I did? $28 billion from China went to farmers, because they were targeted. Can you imagine Joe Biden saying to China? In fact, he actually said he’d take off the taxes and the tariffs that we charged. He said, “We’ll take them off.” But now we know why, because his son walked away with a billion and a half dollars in management fees.
About how about where the son said he wants 10 million a year for recommendation purposes? You know who he’s going to recommend? His father. His father is going to be recommended. Or the son, who was out of a job, had no money, and then the father became Vice President, and all of a sudden the son is going to be put on the board of Burisma from Ukraine for $183,000. $183,000 a month. Who would not take that job? Who would not take that job? We said, “What’s your experience?” He said, “I have none.” “What do you know about energy?” “I have none.” There’s a young person right here, probably seven or eight years old, has more knowledge of energy than, where is Hunter?
Then he said he wants a $3 million upfront payments also. But how about Russia? So Russia, you know “Russia, Russia, Russia”? The laptop from hell. Russia did a Schiff, watermelon face, Schiff, Adam Schiff. He said the other day, “Here we go again.” He said the laptop was created by Russia. This is, we are so screwed up. And he always says it in the halls of Congress, because you can’t be prosecuted for lying. You ever notice? He doesn’t say it outside. No, he got three and a half … Man, is it windy? Whoa. I wanted to show you how great my hair was. I was having a great hair day. But this is a lot of wind. And besides that, everyone else has a hat on. Everyone else has one. So if you can do it, I can do it too. Then he got three and a half million cash from the mayor of Moscow’s wife. She very generously gave him three and a half million dollars in cash.
So when I asked during the debate, did anyone see the debates, by the way? I felt like Perry Mason. It is absolutely incredible. Look, the last question I said, “Wait a minute, does that mean you want to get rid of energy? You want to get rid of it all?” “Yes, I’d like to transition out.” I said, “This is the biggest moment.” That was like Perry Mason, the last one. And even anchor, Kristen Welker, who actually treated me fairly compared to Chris Wallace, who wouldn’t let us answer a question, actually, Chris Wallace came in third that evening, we won, no, I would say that Sleepy Joe probably came in second, Chris Wallace was a deep third, but Kristen Welker, who did, I mean, her inclination is not for us, but she looked up and when he said that stupid answer, she said, “Why did you say that?” Because she’s on his side.
Did you see that? “Why did you say that? Oh, you ruined my evening now.” Nah, she was fair to me. She really was. I called her, I said, “That was very professional. I appreciated it.” No, most people said she didn’t treat me well. Relatively speaking, she treated me fantastically. In 2016, Georgia voted to fire his corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first, If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician, thank you. That’s right, right? If I don’t know is played by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fight for you harder and meaner and stronger than any President has ever fought for you. That I can tell you. That swamp is deep and it’s vicious and they keep coming at you. But we’re there and we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
Deep swamp. It’s a deep swamp, but we’re winning, and I’ll tell you what, we’re going to win. I mean, I wish they didn’t delay the whole deal, but maybe we can win by enough they can call it on Tuesday night. I just came in, and the beautiful thing about Air Force One, good looking plan, isn’t it, the beautiful thing about Air Force One, you have more televisions than you have in anything. They have televisions on the floors, on the ceilings, and one of the shows had very strongly, they said, “Do you see what’s happening?” And they go, “What? What’s happening?” “Trump is way up with African Americans, way up with Hispanic Americans.” He goes, “What’s happening?” And the votes came in, because you people are going to go and vote mostly on election day, which is good. That’s called the red wave. Don’t let anything stop you. Nothing. That’s called the red way.
But these people, they send in their ballots and we’re practically even. We’re supposed to be 20, 30, 40 point points behind. And then we make it up and at the end we get it over the line, right? So, in Florida, we’re practically, even. They’re in big trouble. They’re saying, “This isn’t good. This isn’t good.” There are those that have already projected that we’re going to win Florida, that we’re going to win certain. This is not working out like they thought, I think we’re going to do even better than we did four years ago. And you know what? I never thought I’d say it, but this is even more of an important election. Thank you very much. I love you too. I don’t know who you are. I don’t know, male or female, I can’t even tell. But whoever you are, I love you too. This is going to be the most important election in my opinion, because our country can never be a socialist country. And that’s what they want to do.
This election is a choice between a depression and a boom. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown … He always talks about locking down, “I want the lockdown. I want to follow science.” Some guy walks in, I think he should lock it down. No, let’s knock down a $12 trillion economy. No, we’re not going to do that. It’s also we come up a safe vaccine that is ending the pandemic. By the way, it ends with or without. We’re rounding the turn. But we have the greatest companies in the world and they’re all set and we’re coming up. We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks and it will quickly help us to eradicate it. It’s going to go anyway. It’s going anyway. We are rounding that. And by the way, they have therapeutics that work. Look what they do.
I don’t know. I like to think I did it, because I’m in perfect physical shape, but I’m a young man. Like Baron Trump, he had it. “Sir, Barron tested positive.” White House doctor, Sean, a great doctor, he said, “Sir, your son, Barron,” 14 years old, very tall young man, Hi, Barron, how you doing? He’s great. But he’s strong. And Sean came in to see me, “Sir, Barron tested positive.” I said, “That’s not good.” “Oh, he’ll be fine, sir.” I said, about 12 minutes later, “Sean, how’s Barron doing?” “Sir, he’s fine. It’s all gone.” See, they have a strong … I don’t mean 12. You know what they’ll do? They’ll say, “He’s exaggerating. It took a half a day.” The fake news, everything you say. When I talked about illegal immigration, Joe Biden wants to give everything you can give to illegal immigrants, which will bring millions and millions of people in.
So I said, “You can’t give them healthcare. You can’t give them education.” But Joe Biden promised them, every one of them, a free Rolls-Royce. CNN said, “This is a terrible thing. That’s not a true statement.” No, they can’t take a little bit of fun. But you know what? We’re in a position, we’re doing so well, we could afford to have fun. The one thing that happened, the one thing that happened that we can never, ever forget is what China did to our country. We can never forget. We shouldn’t have one death. But we closed it up. How would you like to be in my position? I just created, with a lot of people including yourselves, the greatest, strongest economy in the world, and now I had to shut it down. And we did the right thing. We shut it down. We figured it out. We have to protect our senior citizens. We protect, we know all about it, and we now have all these therapies and in my opinion cures.
I mean, I think it’s cures, I think frankly. But we’ve done a great job. But how would you like to be shutting down the greatest economy ever? And now we’re building it back up, and we’re not talking about a V, we’re talking about a super V, based on all of the numbers that you see. Housing numbers, automobile numbers. 33.1, the highest ever by more than double. Joe Biden is promising to postpone the vaccine, delay therapies, and turn America into a prison state, lock it down, locking you in your home while letting Antifa and other far left rioters look letting Antifa, Antifa is bad news, you do know that, right, bad news, let them run free. You can’t go to church, right? You can’t go to your schools. You can’t do any of this stuff. By the way, your Governor, I don’t know if he’s here. Is he here? Brian? Where is he? Because Brian did a hell of a job. He said, “We’re going to let it stay open.” And Georgia is doing very well.
The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduation, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no Easter, no 4th of July, no future for American youth. Other than that, he’s doing quite a good job, right? Sleepy Joe Biden. You know what? In prime time, he was never a smart guy. Everybody knows it. And he was never a nice guy. And if he was a nice guy, I wouldn’t talk the way I talk about him. But he is definitely not the guy. He was in primetime, we called them 1% Joe. He always got 1% when he ran. Now, he’s got half left. He’s got about a half at best. And he wins. Is this a screwed up business you people are in or what? What a crazy business. A vote for Biden is a vote for lockdowns, layoffs, and misery. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family well, and freedom to live your life, then go cast your ballot for a man named Trump. We’re doing a job. We’re a job together. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wish they’d show. Could the camera’s please span this crowd? They never do it. They never do it. And they never show Joe. So today he did a conference with Barack Hussein Obama. And you know what? The crowd was actually smaller. They’re not drawing flies. They’re not drawing. And they never show that crowd. But they should show these crowds, because in the history of politics, I think in the history of anything, including music, and I do this without a guitar. That’s very tough. We don’t have a guitar. Look at these crowds. It is one of the great phenomenons. They don’t like talking about it. They said, “Is he a great public speaker?” “Oh, I don’t really think so.” Well, what the hell am I getting 35,000 people? Today, I said to the great Hope Hicks … does anybody know Hope Hicks?
Or Kayleigh? Where’s Kayleigh? Kayleigh’s great. We have such great people. Or our Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, do you know him? He loves these rallies. Took me three years to get them out of Congress. I tell you what, he’s doing a great job. So easy, it’s such an easy job, because we’re dealing with such nice people on the other side. But you know what? It’s going to all come together with success. I tell this, it was coming together.
… success. I tell this, it was coming together. We were getting calls. It was coming together. Believe it or not, we were getting calls from the other side, people that you wouldn’t believe we’d be getting calls from. You know what? Let’s sit down. And then all of a sudden we got hit with the China Plague. And now we’re back to the drawing boards and next year is going to be one of the greatest economic years and all of that. But I’ll tell you what. Success, great success like we had best, if you look, African American numbers, Hispanic American numbers, women, Asian American numbers, high school diploma, no high school diploma, MIT, first in your class. Everybody was doing good and it was coming together and we would have unified, I’m telling you. And we’re going to have another chance at it because we are going to have a stronger year next year, because we have a great foundation and you see the kind of numbers coming in.
You had your best year last year ever. You’re going to have an even better year next year. And like all these caps, Make America Great Again, we’re going to change them. We’re going to say, “Make America Great Again, Again.” But you don’t have to believe me on Biden. I brought a very expensive little tape for you to watch. Where is it? Lot of money.
We have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote, vote. Visit iwill.com/ohio. God bless you. Look, tomorrow is superstar Tuesday, and I want to thank you all. I tell you what, I’m rushing head on. We owe these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created by the … You know, you know the thing. Do you agree with me? Go to Joe 30330. We choose to over facts. Play the radio. Make sure the television, excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night. Make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids are just as bright and just as talented as the White kids. Donald Trump does pose an existential to this … It’s not hypothetic.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plans. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along during a quickie escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal. One of the things that is important is that … Keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on ….
Guys, back to that line, please.
That was terrifying.
What kind of country we’re going to be. Four more years of George, we’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have [inaudible 00:00:31:16]. Folks, we’ve got a lot of work to do. I don’t need you to get me elected. I need you once I’m elected. I’ll an effective strategy to mobilize trunalimunumaprzure.
[inaudible 00:03:30].
We have to come together. That’s why I’m running.
We saved so much time. We could run another couple of minutes. I could just say, “Bye-bye, I’m going to Florida.” I’m doing another one of these in a little while. The fake news can’t believe it. They’re exhausted. Look at all of them back there. Those cameras, they’re sagging. This is their fourth one, and all the crowds are big and strong and they love our country. They all love our country. We have a movement the likes of which this country has never seen before. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone. So joining us tonight. No, we have a movement the likes of which this country has never seen before, never seen. And you thought it was big four years ago, this is much bigger. This is much bigger. You know why? Because I’ve really lived up to what we said, and even more so.
One of them said, he’s actually the only guy I’ve ever seen, “He’s done more than he promised,” which is true. That’s not a typical politician. But joining us tonight are warriors. Great people, people that I work with all the time, people that I like and people that I respect. Actually, a couple of them I don’t like that much, but I respect them and they do a good job, which is much more important. But one I do like and respect a lot, he’s respected like you wouldn’t believe all over Washington. People go to him for advice and he gets it done, Senator David Perdue. Stand up, David. Will you please make sure he gets in without a runoff? Do you mind? The guy he’s running against is nothing. I beat him running, he was running for Congress against somebody I’m going to introduce in just a second, but we beat him and we beat him easily. Now, he’s running for the Senate. You’re supposed to win at a certain level before you do this. David’s one of the best there is in the whole country. And you’ve got to make sure that David Perdue wins, okay?
A woman that I got to know a little while ago, and she is strong and tough and wonderful, and she’s done a really great job, but I want to thank her very much, Kelly Loeffler. Great job, Kelly. Great job. A man who is very close to Kelly, thinks she’s wonderful, admits that she’s great, and she admits that he’s great, and I’m stuck right in the middle, and he’s somebody, and he really is, he’s a warrior, he was a warrior with the fake impeachment witch hunt deal. And you couldn’t have asked for better. He’s an incredibly talented guy and a good guy. And I’m just sitting back and watching these two, and whoever it is, you have two winners, you have two winners, Doug Collins. Thank you, Doug. You think it’s easy being me, right? We’re going to have two winners. We got two winners there. Go out and vote and let’s see what happens. But whoever it is, we got to two really talented people.
Representative Rick Allen. Great job, Rick. Great job. These are warriors. Barry Loudermilk. Barry. Oh, I liked that, Barry. I like that. Thank you, Barry. Great job you do. We appreciate all that support from these guys. They really are, they fight hard, and they win. They know how to win. We were 197 to nothing, right? 197 on the fake impeachment. I’m the only guy in the world that got impeached over a very good phone call. Can you believe? I think you’re supposed to do something wrong to get impeached, but they took care of it. Former Governor for eight years and a very, very popular guy and so good at the farming business I made him Secretary of Agriculture, and we gave the farmers $28 billion, thank you very much, China, Sonny Perdue. Thank you, Sonny. And Lieutenant Governor Jeff Duncan. Hi, Jeff. Good, Jeff. Good job, Jeff. Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black. Thank you. Great, Gary. Good job you’re doing. Oh, here’s a guy. I love this guy. And I guess he’s not at least yet a Republican. Can you believe it?
But he’s the hottest guy in politics. I see him on television. Everyone loves him. The ratings go up. I shouldn’t say Democrat. So I refuse to say it. State Representative Vernon Jones. Man, oh man. Great job. I love this guy. He’s got guts. He saw me a couple of times. He said, “That’s what we need.” I mean, we can’t have Sleepy Joe. Thank you. And he’s long before Joe. He’s a great gentleman too. He’s a great person. Georgia GOP Chair David Schaffer. Thank you, David. How are we doing, David? Are we winning? Are we going to win big? Can you imagine where they say, “Don’t come tonight”? Can you imagine? I’m going to call them out? You had people in line for two days. Let’s call them up and say, “We don’t need you because we’re going to win Georgia.” But you’ve got to go vote. You never know. It’s called politics. You never know. Got to be careful. Get out and vote. Let’s really send a resounding note to Washington.
And a friend of mine and a great woman, and I hope she wins because she deserves it. She works hard and her opponent is absolutely terrible. She’s a total puppet for Nancy Pelosi, Crazy Nancy. Congressional candidate Karen Handel. Karen. You’re doing well, Karen, got to win. Opponent is zippo. Rich McCormick. Rich. There’s Rich. Good luck, Rich. I heard it’s good. Angela Stanton King. Thank you. I heard you’re all doing well. Somebody that gets a little more publicity than I do, Marjorie Taylor Greene right here from Northwest Georgia. Oh boy. I don’t want to mess with her. No, she’s great. Every one of them has my full and complete endorsement. Go out and vote for them and let them all come into Congress. Really great. That’s great. For 47 years, Sleepy Joe Biden viciously and repeatedly attacked Black Americans. He decimated the Black middle class and called young Black men “super predators”, and they never forgot it. They never forgot it. To every Black American, I’m asking you to go out and vote. You can send a message on Tuesday to the corrupt Democrat establishment. This is your one and only chance to show Sleepy Joe what you think of his decision to attack you, insult you, jail you, and betray you. And that’s what he did. That’s what he did exactly. Some people won’t say it like I say it, but I’ll say it. And you know it. You know it. I’m fighting for you. And I got approved things that they never thought, that Obama didn’t even try. They never had a chance. And we had to twist a lot of arms, didn’t we, David. We had to twist a lot of arms. Criminal justice reform, prison reform opportunities zones, and funding for historically Black colleges and universities.
I always say that with a possible exception I like to keep the word possible in, with the exception of Abraham Lincoln, I have done more for the Black community than any other President. I say it. I said it during the debate. I say it, I say it proudly. And very few people can dispute it. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history, including over 400 miles of completed wall. And it’ll be finished very soon. Strongest border we’ve ever had. And by the way, Mexico is paying for the wall, so we get that one clear. It’s all done. Joe Biden wants to open borders, he wants mass amnesty, and he would make every community in America into a sanctuary city. I believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal alien. The Biden-Harris plan would also increase refugees a staggering 700%. This is Crazy Bernie, one of the greatest loses in the history of politics.
No, he keeps losing and then he goes back and he says but he’s running again in four years, don’t worry about it. He’ll be back. One thing about him, you can’t get rid of him. I like that about Crazy Bernie. Opening the flood Gates to radical Islamic terrorism. No thank you. I’m keeping the terrorists and jihadists and violent extremists the hell out of our country, if it’s okay with you. If it’s okay with Georgia, if it’s okay with Georgia. Well, I’ll tell you what. Thank you. I saw some very good numbers today. I appreciate it. But get out and vote. So, in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. And we’re doing it. We’ve already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will …
With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment. We will defend your second amendment. We will maintain Americans and rivaled military might. We are the envy of the world with our military. We had an obsolete, exhausted, tired military. We have totally rebuilt our military and we will ensure peace through strength. Greatest equipment in the world, all made in the USA. And a lot of it, I hate to say it’s made right here in Georgia. We will end surprise medical billing, require prices transparency, already approved and signed. January 1st that kicks in. Lower drug prices even more. We’re going to favorite nations where we get the lowest price in the world. And the drug pu… They do not like me too much is big, they call it big pharma, big pharma is not a big fan of Trump. They don’t like what I did.
But you know what? It’s the only way you break that whole cartel. You have to break it. You’re going to have drug prices going down 50, 60, 70%. And they’re going more commercials on me than sleepy Joe Biden. In fact, he keeps saying, who’s doing those great commercials. It’s the drug companies. All right, now you’re going to have tremendous price guts on drugs and prescription drugs. We’re going to protect your social security and your medicare, which they won’t do because when they allow all of these illegals to come in, it’ll destroy your social security and your medicare. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will add the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.
NASA is the talk of the space world. And we also have space force by the way. I never even used to talk about that. I never talked about that during, I realized after I was president that we needed it when I saw what was going on with Russia, China, we needed it. Space force first new, if you think, first in 75 years. Last was the air force, right? Brand new, brand new, and it’s doing great. And everybody wants to go into space force. 75 years since air force. And now we have space force and it’ll be one of our most important. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust.
For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Georgia. Better believe it. And I want to thank Herschel Walker because I think he’s great. I used to watch him when he was in college, he was like a man playing with children. He would catch, he would carry that ball for 10 or 12 yards. That was what he had a bad day, right? 10 or 12. He made a lot of quarterbacks look genius. Here Herschel, here’s the ball. Here Herschel here’s the ball. He’s the greatest. One of the greatest. Where is Herschel, is he around here?
I think I love Herschel Walker. He’s been out there and he is one of the greatest athletes. I think he said he does a thousand pushups a day and he is just something special. He’s been a great friend of mine for a long time for, I don’t want to tell you how long, but, so I just want to pay my respects because he loves this part of the world. He loves Georgia and Georgia loves him. You know, they did the ballot. Remember they did a ballad to Herschel Walker. You just hand him the ball, you win the game. Here Herschel 10 yards, 12 yards, 40. What did he average today? He averaged 11 yards of carry. Well, that’s pretty good. Hard to lose those games. So thank you very much Herschel you’re watching. Thank you very much. Thank you.
And Georgia loves your Herschel and I do too. Two days from now, America’s fate is in your hands. Your vote can defeat the Washington swamp and the corrupt media right there. Once and for all. They have to get out to vote. You’re going to probably want to get, I always say early vote, early vote. But our people love to vote on election day, Tuesday. So go out and vote. That red wave is going to be all, it’s going to be the darker the world. It’s going to be the talk of the world.
It’s going to be the talk of the world. From Atlanta. You know it, you feel it, you see it and you know, organically, these things are just rising up. 5,000 votes all over the place. And I mean, nobody’s ever seen thousands of cars. What do they have? Something 90 or a hundred miles long of cars, trucks, tractors. In Iowa they had thousands of tractors on this massive farm. Now it’s something’s going on. Never happened before. Nothing like this has happened before. By the way, crowds like this have never happened before. This never happened before.
My competitor, he’s got those circles, those crazy circles. And he can’t fill them up. There’s five of them. So he has to press please come down and take one. From Atlanta to Augusta, from Savannah to Columbus and from Athens to right here at Rome, we inherit the legacy of red blooded American patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. Great people. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, right? Raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Georgia. We love Georgia. I love Georgia. We love Georgia. Thank you. That’s really an honor. Don’t keep doing that. You’re going to make me cry. I said, they’ll put up, the President broke down in tears tonight as they chanted we love you. No, we don’t want, I mean, I guess it’s okay, but somehow we don’t want to, we don’t want to have a crying president I don’t think. Right now we don’t want, we have too many things to do. But I do. It’s never been heard. That chant has never been heard politically so I appreciate it very much. Believe me. We have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Georgia. Go out and vote.
Thank you very much. Wow. This is a very big crowd. Wow look at this. Hello North Carolina, hello. Two days from now we are going to win this great State just like we did last time. You were the one, right? You were the one that put us over that hump and we’re going to win four more years in the white house, our beautiful white house. With your vote we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, protect our Second Amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Under my leadership our economy grew at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1% just announced. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months while foreign nations are in a free fall, we’re creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse. A recent Gallup Poll just came out, found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under Obama and sleepy Joe Biden.
And I want to tell you it’s really windy up here. Thank goodness you have a President that doesn’t need teleprompters because these things are virtually useless. They are blowing all over the place. That’s true. They’re blowing all over. We started off today two great places. We went to Iowa, I’ll tell you what, in Iowa we had the coldest windiest, but it was warm because the people were warm and we’re going to win Iowa, very big, very big. But we had a couple of cold stops today. One was so cold we talked about refugees, we said, if they come in they’re going to say, “I want to go back immediately,” it was so cold. If Biden and Harris get in, the economy will collapse and our country will go into at least a free fall, but probably a depression, they want to raise your taxes. They want to take away your Second Amendment, they want to do lots of things that I don’t think you can stand for.
I don’t think you can send for, fracking doesn’t pertain so much to it, it does pertain in a different way to you than it would to Pennsylvania. They’re taking away you’re fracking but what they’re really doing is your energy costs are going to go through the roof, that will be very bad for this incredible State. They want to massively increase regulations, send your jobs overseas, destroy the suburbs, well we’re keeping the suburbs. I got rid of the regulation that would have destroyed the suburbs, they will bring it back worse than ever before. Terminate religious liberty, eliminate school choice, outlaw private healthcare, and shred your Second Amendment, take away your guns and indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies. Biden has vowed to abolish U.S. oil, U.S. fracking, natural gas, industry. Look at what he’s talking about doing, but it’s not him, he’s shot, okay? It’s not him.
It’s the radical left, it’s the radical left. Energy prices will explode and that will cripple our country. We, right now, are energy independent, what we have going we’ve never had before. Biden’s energy ban will send every state from North Carolina to Michigan to Pennsylvania into a very, very severe problem and we’re not going to have it, we worked too hard. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country and then the plague came in from China, it came in from China, they should have never allowed it. They stopped it from going into China, but it came to us and Europe and the rest of the world and we’re never going to ever forget, we will never forget. But now we’re building our economy back up and it’s going in a V, but it’s really a super V. As long as I’m President, we will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas on the planet earth and we will remain energy independent. Our opponents’ agenda is a war on workers, a war on faith and a war on our great police. Biden says he’s running as a proud Democrat, I’m running as a proud American.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
Thank you. Thank you very much. By the way, I just have to say this. So we had something incredible happen four years ago. This is more important and there’s more energy, the crowds are bigger, everything’s hotter. But this is actually and I never thought I’d say it because that was an incredible period of time, never thought, this is the most important election perhaps in the history of my country. Get out and vote. Got to get out and vote. Sleepy Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in ridiculous, endless wars and they’re all coming back, they’re all coming back. North Carolina lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs thanks to NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever. And we got rid of it, nobody thought that was possible. Promises made, promises kept. We did it all. Biden and his group shipped your jobs and your factories to China and other places in far away lands raking in millions of dollars for himself it turns out, we didn’t know about this, did we? His son was like a human vacuum cleaner, he went in and “Where are you going today, dad?” “I think I’ll go to Ukraine.” “Okay, let me pick up a couple of bucks.” $183,000 a month and $3 million upfront. “Where are you going today dad?” “I’m going to go to Russia,” “Good.” So the Mayor of Moscow’s wife gave him three and a half million dollars, right? And here’s the scary part, the fake news media and there’s a lot of it right back there, the fake news, they don’t want to talk about it, they don’t want to talk about it. And big tech will refuse to put it on and then they’ll terminate the New York Post if they put it up, New York Post I have to give them a lot of credit. Number one, they endorse me, which is nice.
I got endorsed today by the Pittsburgh Gazette and it hasn’t happened where they endorsed a Republican today. Nobody can believe it, they haven’t done it in decades. And thank you very much Pittsburgh Gazette, we’ll take it. We got endorsed by a lot of great people, we got endorsed by great people and a lot of newspapers are endorsing us because they know that Joe Biden is not up to this job. All you have to do is watch him for about five minutes, he is not up to this job. One thing I can tell you, President Xi, Putin, Kim Jong-un, they’re very sharp, they’re very sharp, they’re all very sharp and we cannot have a leader that’s not sharp. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who is bought and paid for by China and other countries.
How can you have a guy whose son walks out with a billion and a half dollars to manage, that means millions of dollars a year, whose son asked for $10 million a year for introductory purposes, right? $10 million a year and he’s supposed to be negotiating with China? China would just hope that I don’t win because, hey, we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars a year first time ever with China, we never took in $25 cents. Saved our steel mills, saved our steel mills, saved our steel and aluminum industries. In 2016, North Carolina voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected a President who is finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician it’s because thankfully I’m not a politician and never will be. And if I don’t always play by …
Never will be. And if I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I fight for you and there’s never been anybody that’s fought harder for you. I had a very nice life before doing this. I had a very nice life.
We love you! We love you!
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. So nice of you. That’s such a great honor, when I hear that. It’s never been said at any… I said, “Did anybody ever hear that? Ronald Reagan we liked, others we like.” Nobody’s ever heard it, and I appreciate it very much. My opponent is promising a long dark winter. Did anybody see the debate? I’m sure nobody watched it, right? He didn’t do too well. Remember he said, “You’re going to have a long dark winter”? It’s so inspiring. How about somebody says, “Gee, we really like Biden”? I don’t think anybody likes Biden. “Harry, let’s watch Biden tonight on television.” And he says, “We’re going to have a long dark winter.” How inspiring that is, right? So he said that, and I’m saying that we’re going to deliver the greatest American comeback in history. That’s what we’re doing, and we’re way ahead of schedule.
This election is a choice between a Biden depression and a boom like you’ve never seen before. It’s a choice between a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock you down. Let’s lock it down. Let’s lock it down. And by the way, tell your Governor to open up North Carolina. It’s time. It’s ridiculous. It’s ridiculous. They’ll probably announce it on November 4th. “We’re going to open up now.” They thought our numbers wouldn’t be so good. They thought by keeping these states like Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Michigan, how about her? Her husband roams free. He’s the only one in the whole state. No, but they thought that by keeping them down the numbers would … And yet we had, at 33.1, that’s the highest in the history of our country. By double. You have to go back to 1952, and that was half of what we did. So we are looking forward. We’re going to have very shortly, within a couple of weeks, we’re going to have a safe vaccine that will end.
And now look, we’re rounding, they hate when I say it, the fake news, but we’re rounding the turn. We’re rounding the corner anyway. We’re rounding the corner. But on top of that, we have vaccines coming from Pfizer, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Moderna, great companies, and they’re right there, they’re right. And we’re going to have them launched. And our military is going to do it logistically. Incredible. And we’re going to start with our seniors, especially our seniors where they have some problems with heart, with diabetes, and we’re going to have a great thing. It’s going to speed up the process we launched. And by the way, it does work here. I am. Here I am. No, I like to say that the medicine I took, Regeneron, I’d like to say that it had no impact on me, because I’m a perfect physical specimen and I’ very young. But I decided to take it anyway.
No, it’s amazing the things we’ve been able to do in the last six months. Not only that, if you look at all of what we produce now, we’ve become a production … Incredible what we’re doing and what we’re sending to the world. The ventilators, what we’re sending to the world, I mean, we’re sending things that nobody could believe. The treatments that reduce the fatality rate now 85%. Think of it, think of it. But my wife, our First Lady got it and our son Baron got it. And Barron’s 14, and he’s very tall and he’s strong. And he had it for a matter of minutes. That’s why I say, “Get the kids back to school. Get them back to school.” The doctor came up to us and said, “I’m sorry, but Barron has tested positive.” And I said, “For what? Tested positive for what? And it’s got about 30 different names, but he said, “COVID.”
We could call it the China Plague, the China Virus, but he didn’t say. He said, “COVID. I said, “Gee, that’s too bad.” He said, “Oh, he’ll be fine.” About 14 minutes later, he came back. I said, “How’s Baron doing?” “Oh, he shook it off. It’s fine. He’s fine.” They’re young. They have strong immune systems. Get them back to school, please. We’ve learned about this horrible plague that was sent to us by China. Our excess mortality rate in America is 40% lower than Europe. You keep hearing Europe is doing so well. They’re not doing so well. And we want them to do well, by the way. And we helped them. We helped them. We want them to do well. But they’re having a very hard time.
Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state while letting rioters roam fee. They close your churches, they close your schools, but if you want to riot and burn down the stores and have the anarchists out there and do lots of it, that’s okay. You can’t stop that. You can’t go to school and you can’t go to church. It’s crazy. All Democrat run, by the way. All Democrat run. You look at Portland, Democrat, super liberal Democrat. We could fix that situation. We have to be invited in. We fixed Seattle because we said, “That’s enough. We’re going in. We don’t care. We’re going in.” So we were going in the next morning. That night they found out about it. They said, “We’re leaving now. Thank you very much.” And we did a great job in Minnesota, Minneapolis. After you watched that place burning, down a week and a half later, they went in and solved it in about a half an hour.
If we’d listened to Joe Biden on allowing travel to come in from China and Europe, remember he said, “Oh, he’s xenophobic.” Now, he runs for President, he said, “We should have acted sooner.” Months later, he didn’t think we should do it. Hundreds of thousands more people would have died. We saved two million people or more. Remember the model? It said 2.2 million people would die. Well, we saved two million people by acting quickly. Now, Biden wants a cruel and very heartless nationwide shut down. It won’t affect you, because you’re already shut down. I don’t know what the heck. What’s going on with your state? Are you ready to open up? I think so, huh? No, you know what? People aren’t going to take it anymore. Look at what happened in Europe, and the people are revolting. They don’t want to do it anymore. They can’t do it anymore. We can’t have the cure be worse than the problem itself. That was the first thing I said a long time ago.
The Biden lockdown will result in countless deaths and wipe out an entire generation of dreams. And we’ve learned that children with a computer do not do well compared to being in classes. They don’t do well. It’s not the same. And the parents have to go to work, and the problems that are caused with alcohol, drug abuse. We can’t let this happen. And you can’t let it go on. I have a feeling that probably they’ll say, “It’s now November 4th, the day after the election, we’ll go back. We’ll go back.” He should have never done that. And they should have never done that. And actually, the states that are doing best, look at Florida, look at all of these states where they had a spike and they didn’t close down. Look at what happened in Arizona. Look at what happened in Texas. We can’t let it happen. Europe imposed Draconian lockdowns, and yet their cases are exploding. Their deaths are surging and their economies are, let’s face it, you look at what happened, they’re in ruins.
We had the smallest down and the largest up and the largest fast up on the economy, by far. So the European lockdowns are leading to more suffering, delayed medical care, and financial devastation. A vote for Biden is a vote for lockdowns, layoffs, misery, and getting rid of your Second Amendment. They want to hurt our police, but they want to take away your guns. Very interesting, isn’t it? If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then go cast your ballot, cast your vote for me. We’re going to do it. We’re doing it. But you don’t have to take my word for it, because in certain states that I like a lot, we spend a lot of money for, where is that rail? Look at that over there. Look at that.
Four more years!
You’re going to see something right now. You don’t have to listen. Please roll the video. Roll it.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The President is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years, and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
A rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China but the United States and the rest of the world. A rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, that they’re going to beat us, is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which you supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, that those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us.
Now, look.
Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA. We have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote, vote. Visit iwill.com/Ohio. God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe, by the way, it’s not a real website, and Joe you’re running for President, not Senator. And by the way that Senator, the Mormon guy, is Mitt Romney, not some Mormon Governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you that’s just …
Some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00 a.m., well, disaster ensues. Here’s a quick reminder.
Tomorrow’s superstar Thursday. And I want to thank you all. I’ll tell you what, I’m rushing ahead, aren’t I. We hold these truths to be self-evident all men and women are created by the… Go, you know, the, you know the thing. If you agree with me, go to Joe three O three three O. We choose truth over facts. Play the radio. Make sure the television, excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night, the phone. Make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids are just as bright and just as talented as white kids. Donald Trump does pose the next little spent to this… It’s not hypothetic.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff. And I am beginning… Well, I’m more than a little worried that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading. He’s been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the President of the United States of America. That would be the toughest job in the world. And at times, Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for President or what state he’s in or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that if elected that Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George, George, he’s going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be, we’re going to be in a different world.
Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have bad at health care. Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t really need you to get me elected. I need you once I’m elected. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize truant international under pressure. [inaudible 00:02:16].
Thank you. Well, thank you very much. That saves a lot of words up here on this cold windy night. It saves a lot of words, but we can’t do this to our country. We have such potential. We cannot do this. He’s failed for 47 years. And at the debate, all I had to do is very easy. I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” You know, as he stood in complained, “What about this, what…,” I said, “Joe, you left three and a half years ago. You were there for a long time. And you were in that position for eight years. Why didn’t you do it, Joe?” And he never had an answer. No law enforcement endorsements, no nothing.
Joining us tonight are some people that have done a great job and people that really helped me a lot in Washington, a man who right now I hear you do doing extremely well in the polls, senator, Tom Tillis. Tom, very good. I just saw a very good poll and we had a very good poll today, too.
I have to tell you that. I’ll tell you what, if I don’t win after coming here… They said, “Maybe we can cancel North Carolina tonight.” One of my guys, one of my geniuses said, “I think they’d understand.” You’ve only been out here for two days waiting. I said, “I don’t have the courage to even think about asking that question.” No, would never even think about it. No, you’ve been great to me. The victories that we’ve had together and what we’ve done for you, and we have you protected, including your tobacco growers. Right? We have it all. We have you all protected. You’re all protected.
A really wonderful person, wonderful woman, and she’s always with me, representative Virginia, Foxx. Virginia., thank you. Thank you, Virginia. Great job. You do.
A man that I’d love to see in. He’ll open you up. I think we can get a guarantee tonight. Lieutenant Governor, Dan Forest. Come on Dan, win. Good, Dan. Boy oh boy, I tell you that would be a natural. That’s a natural. You’ll open it up right away. Okay. You should win just on that one. This is crazy. He’s doing what the Washington Democrats are telling him to do.
Attorney General candidate Jim O’Neill, hi, Jim. I Great job, Jim. GOP Chairman Mike Whatley. How are we doing, Mike? Are we winning? Are we leading? The poll’s up. Right? Yeah, we’re up pretty good. We should be up.
Can you imagine? Can you imagine pastor and a friend of mine and he lives right down the road, Pastor Franklin Graham.
Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to just take a second to pray for this man. Will you join me? Father and our God, we pray for our President. Protect him and his family and protect our nation. And we pray this in Jesus’ name. Amen.
You take care of yourself. Thank you. It’s a great honor. That’s good genes right there. Right? That’s good genes, Billy Graham. How good was Billy Graham? Right? Nobody liked Billy.
After years of rebuilding foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. For 47 years, the Democrats viciously and brutally repeatedly attacked. And you know what we’re talking about because it was led by a man named Joe Biden… Black Americans, they attacked. Decimated the black middle class and called young black men super predators. To every black American, I am asking for you to vote. You have to vote on Tuesday. You can send a message on Tuesday to the corrupt Democrat establishment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
We’ve had tremendous support and by the way, just so you understand, I don’t want to look at all those cameras. Oh, they’re all blazing. You ready? So we’re doing so well. And one of the great things that’s happened is our African American vote. Our black community vote is way up. And they’re all saying, “Wow, wow.” They’re all saying… Everybody back there is saying, “Wow, that’s amazing.” That’s what’s happening in Florida. That’s what’s happening here. That’s what’s happening all over.
This is your one and only chance to show sleepy Joe Biden what you think of his decisions to attack, insult, jail you. 1994, Bill, I’m fighting for you. And if you look at what we’ve done just quickly, criminal justice reform, prison reform, opportunities zones with Tim Scott, historically black colleges and universities long-term funding. They had no funding. They had… Every year, they had to come back and ask for funding. I said, “Nope, we’ve got to get your long-term funding.” We got them more money than they wanted. They needed it.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure United States border in the history of our country. Biden would make every city in America a sanctuary city, which is not good. And it’s not Biden. It’s not Biden. It’s his handlers. I believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding American citizens. The Biden/Harris plan would also increase refugees 700%, opening flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. You see what’s happening in France. I’m keeping terrorists, jihadists, and violent extremists out of our country.
And I was asked, on this very windy night, speaking of that, to do a thing that we used to do during the campaign. I’ll do it. Has anyone heard of The Snake?” Have you heard? Should I do it?
So this has to do with this subject. And it’s been a long time since I’ve done this one, but so many people are asking. You ready? The Snake. On her way to work one morning down the path, along the Lake, a tender hearted woman, saw a poor half frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. “Poor thing,” she cried. “I’ll take you in and I’ll take care of you.” “Take me in oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in oh, tender woman,” sighed that vicious snake.
She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk. And she laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she’d taken in had been revived. “Take me in oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in oh, tender woman,” sighed that vicious snake.
She clutched him to her bosom. “You’re so beautiful, she cried, ” But I hadn’t brought you in by now, you know, you would have died.” She stroked his pretty skin again and kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying, thank you, this snake gave her a vicious bite. “Take me in oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman,” sighed that vicious snake. “I saved you,” cried the woman, “And you bit me, but why? You knew your bite was poisonous and now I’m going to die.” “Shut up, silly woman,” said the reptile with a grin. “You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.”
So, I’ve been asked by so many people. I’ve been asked to do that one by so many people, but that pertains a little bit to what we see going on. And you look at Paris and you look at the attacks over the last week and you…
… Paris and you look at the attacks over the last week and you look at what’s happening and we are doing very well. We are doing very well. We have a very strong policy. We put in a ban that a lot of people were upset about and now they’re saying, thank you very much for the ban. We appreciate it very much.
We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability for our great vets. We have a 91% approval rating with our vets. That’s the highest by a lot in history, that by direction, the United States military conducted a successful operation to rescue an American hostage, last night. Kidnapped overseas just 96 hours earlier; incredible people.
The US special forces brilliantly executed a daring nighttime operation. Over the last four years, we have rescued a record 55 hostages and detainees in more than 24 countries and we pay nothing because once you pay, those numbers go very high, but this operation should serve as a stark warning to terrorists and thugs who try to kidnap our people. You cannot escape the long reach of American military and American justice.
So this happened last night. We’re very proud of them. I was at Fort Bragg and by the way, we’re leaving the name Fort Bragg in case you had any [inaudible 00:01:45]. Let That word out if you don’t mind. Cancel culture. Let’s cancel. Let’s change everything. Naw. We’re leaving the name Fort Bragg. A lot of… We won two world wars out of Fort Bragg and other great places. Gee, let’s change the name of Fort Bragg.
We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We eliminated the mass murder of US troops. Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. So recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights; 52 years, they negotiated that deal. We did it in less than two hours and we are now forging peace in the Middle East. Already three countries and they’re lined up.
A vote for me in the Republican party is a vote to save the American Dream. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all.
We will hire more police, increase penalties on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Your Second Amendment.
Which Sleepy Joe will not be doing any of that. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And we are the envy of the world, military. $2.5 trillion but we have the finest missiles and rockets and tanks and jets. What we’ve done, submarines. We have the greatest military and our nuclear arsenal has been updated and is a tippy-top shape. And only hope to God, we never have to use it. Hope to God, we never have to use it.
We will end surprise medical billing. Require price transparency starts on January 1st, all done. Lower drug prices even more. Going to bring them down to the lowest anywhere in the world. I’ve exercised a thing called Favored Nations. The drug companies do not like me too much and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust.
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of North Carolina.
Two days from now, America’s fate is in your hands. You must get out and vote. This is the most important election, possibly in the history of our country. You must let everyone know, go get them, go grab your family, grab your boss, grab your coworkers, grab them all. Got to get out and vote. So important.
From Asheville to Charlotte, from Wilmington to Raleigh and from Greensboro to right here in Hickory, great place. Greatest furniture in the world. I bought plenty of it and it’s much better than what they make in China. That I can tell you. I know it well. There’s a big difference. We inherit the legacy of red blooded American patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes, right? These are great, great heroes, who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tame the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
Vote for Tom. Get Tom in there, right? We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of North Carolina, we have made America powerful again; our military.
We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again.
Thank you, North Carolina, go out and vote. Thank you.
Well thank you very much. Thank you. What a crowd. This is a very great place. We had a great victory here four years ago. And I just noticed their happened to be a poll out, that came out last night, that has a very, very substantial margin. We’re very happy with it. We’re very happy with it, and we’re very happy with Iowa, thank you very much Iowa. And we appreciate it. And we’ve had a great run together, and I’ve been working very hard with the farmers, and making them hopefully very rich. Making them very rich, and very successful, and hello to everyone here also from Wisconsin. We have a lot of people from Wisconsin.
All right. Let’s see. Who is from Iowa? And who is from Wisconsin? All right. That’s not terrible. That’s not bad. We just left Wisconsin, and we’re going back to Wisconsin. Two days from now we are going to win Iowa and we are going to win Wisconsin. And we are going to win four more years in that very beautiful White House. With your vote we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, and ensure that more products are made, and raised, and grown in the USA. That’s what’s happening. That’s what’s happening.
Next year we’ll be, I think we’re going to have the greatest year, economically speaking, in the history of our country. You saw the number that just came out. 33.1 GDP. That’s the best number in the history of our country. And we’re set. We call it a super V. We used to say a V, now we’re calling it a super V. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever, we’re truly something. We’re set. We’re all set. We were doing better than ever before. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country, and then we got hit by the China plague, which we’re not going to forget.
Boo.
So we closed it up, we closed it up and then we opened it up, and we saved, I’ll tell you, we saved two million lives. It was 2.2 million people, were projected, we saved two million lives. But what happened, there shouldn’t have been one life. Shouldn’t have been. And we can never forget what China did to us, we can never forget. While foreign nations are in a free fall, you see what’s going on in other lands. Look at what’s happening in Europe. It’s a shame. We’re creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse.
A recent Gallup Poll found that 56% of the Americans polled said that they were better off now, much better off, it’s a record, than they were four years ago under Obama and Biden. As president, I kept my promise. And I protected ethanol. And I approved E15 for use all year round. You don’t know what that means. That’s a lot. They’ve been trying to get that approved. Let me just tell you, for all of the ethanol people, and you have Joni, and you have Chuck over here, they fought with me. They were coming, they wanted it. And I said, “Can I give you just a little bit less.” “No, we won’t accept anything less.”
(laughs).
That’s Chuck, and Joni. They were tough, and they were good. But they didn’t have to fight me. They didn’t have to fight too hard. I was with the farmers. I was with them from the beginning. But if Biden gets in you can forget about ethanol, you can forget about everything.
Boo.
You would have that terminated. You would have that terminated so fast. But authorized its use in existing gas pumps also, that doesn’t mean much to you, it means a lot to the ethanol people. So you have the existing gas pumps, you don’t have to go and spend a fortune to do the new gas pumps. Nobody knows that. And it doesn’t even sound very elegant in this speech. But you have the gas pumps to ethanol, and everything ends if Biden ever… It’s not going to happen with Biden, let’s face it. That’s not going to happen. That’s not going to happen. He would end everything that we’ve done. We’ve made this an incredible year.
I got 28 billion dollars from China that went to our farmers, because they targeted you. We opened new markets for Iowa farmers and ranchers. In Japan, the EU, South Korea, and all over the world. We surged exports with the new USMCA. We got rid of your horrible, terrible, worst trade deal ever made. Everyone said that would be impossible to do, we got it done. We got a lot done. We got a lot done. By the way, do you think it could be any windier up here?
(laughs).
I’m sitting here, it’s like… I’m standing up and this is one hell of a wind. It’s lucky you have a president that doesn’t need a teleprompter, because these things are useless. They’re going. Yeah. They are useless. They’re moving in 17 directions, I’m going like-
(laughs).
Now, Sleepy Joe would be lost. He’d be-
(laughs).
“What am I going to do?” How about this, they ask him questions, he puts on a teleprompter, gives them… I’ve never seen this one. The hardest question he had recently was, “What flavor ice cream do you have sir?” He looks down. “I think vanilla and chocolate.” “Okay, thanks.” They don’t ask me questions like that. We confronted China’s cheating and made them double their purchases. They doubled up their purchases.
And three weeks ago you had the largest court order in the history of our country, right? This guy’s a corn guy. He’s a big corn guy, he likes Trump. You had the largest purchase of soybeans in the history of our country, and the largest beef order. You know why? Because China realized that I’m going to win. Because when you look… And they wanted to make me happy. Because what they did should not have been done.
They dream about Sleepy Joe Biden. They own Sleepy Joe. They gave his boy a lot of money.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you.
Four more years. Four more years.
Ah.
Four more years.
China goes, they go to bed every night and they say, “Please let it be Sleepy Joe.”
(laughs).
They would own the United States. You see the whole deal with him, right? With the son, with the 1.5 billion dollars goes to the son to manage. He makes millions of dollars a year.
Boo.
Then the kid asks for 10 million a year, for recommendation purposes. He’s going to recommend. He gets 10 million. He wants 10 million a year. It’s a disgrace.
Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up.
Nah, it’s a disgrace.
Lock him up. Lock him up.
It’s a disgrace. And then he doesn’t have a job for four years, and he goes, and his father becomes vice president. And he wants $183,000 a month, right? From Ukraine. Ukraine, Burisma, oil company, not the best reputation. And then he said, “That wasn’t enough. Could we have three million dollars up front, please?” And then they get from Russia. They, Russia, Russia, Russia. Oh, by the way, the laptop from hell, all of a sudden-
(laughs).
Shifty Schiff, with the watermelon head, right Joe?
(laughs).
He comes out, [inaudible 00:11:18] Schiff. He comes out and he said, “I think the laptop was developed by Russia.”
(laughs).
Russia’s probably going, “Oh my, here we go again with the-”
(laughs).
Can you imagine that? Three years, no collusion. 48 million dollars. A friend of mine said, “You’ve got to be the cleanest guy in the world. No collusion, no nothing. A waste of 48 million, three years, what a disgrace.”
Boo.
And then they say, “The laptop came from Russia.” No, the laptop came from… Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter?
(laughs).
It’s called the laptop from hell.
(laughs).
How about though, the mayor of Moscow’s wife. Gives Hunter a check for 3.5 million dollars. He didn’t have a job. He was just… His father became vice president and he became… They were raking in money. And the father was supposed to get 10%, right? And then in another case he was supposed to get 50%. And the media doesn’t want to talk about it.
Boo.
They put silence on it.
Boo.
They put silence on it. And big tech, they’ll have to do something with Section 230 Chuck, I’ll tell you. They’re going to have to do something with Section 230, because what’s going on is bad. What’s going on could kill this country. They have to do something with Section 230. It’s time we stopped talking about it and get it done. We passed record… Because they wouldn’t be here if it weren’t for Section… We gave them this unbelievable gift of no liability, and they’ve abused it, they’ve totally abused it.
We passed record middle class tax cuts. And we virtually eliminated the estate tax, so you don’t have a death tax. When you die, and at some point that’ll happen, there’s a couple of guys right here. Let’s see, eh.
(laughs).
When you die and you have a beautiful farm and you want to leave it to your kids, right? In the old days the kids would have to pay tax, and they’d go out and borrow the money, and then two years comes along and they end up losing the farm. No estate tax, no death tax, thank Chuck Grassley, and thank Joni Ernst, right? It’s a big deal. You don’t have the death tax, or the estate tax. It’s a big deal. Now, if you love your children… Who loves your children here? Okay. And who does not love your child or children?
(laughs).
There’s one hand of a woman in the very back.
(laughs).
So, if you don’t love them, it doesn’t matter that much, okay?
(laughs).
If you do, I did you one hell of a favor. You better remember that. We slashed a record number of job-killing regulations. No one has fought harder for the people of Iowa. That’s true. For the people, for the farmers. I fought for the farmers, for the ranchers. And China went after you, but I got the money for you because I got it a different way.
I spoke with our great Secretary of Agriculture, who I think is great, Sonny Perdue, he knows more about farming and agriculture. I said, “Sonny, how much did they hurt us two years ago?” He said, “12 billion dollars.” ” How much last year?” “16 billion.” I said, “Good. Take 28 billion dollars and we’re giving it…” I think it was proportioned right, I hope it was, I don’t know. Did anybody get a bad deal? Did anybody? Because you’re all wealthy.
(laughs).
But we took 28 billion dollars and we gave it to the farmers. And that’s why you’re all here, and that’s why you’re all happy. And no other president would’ve done that. And we had a lot of money leftover, because we tariffed China a lot of money. And they paid for it, you didn’t pay. The fake news likes to say you paid. You don’t pay, they paid. They devalued their currency even further and they paid. We got 28 billion dollars for our farmers, and I’m very happy about it, and so are they.
For decades, Joe Biden let other countries rip you off, rip off our country, and cheat America blind. And there was a group, they were just, they would let them do anything. Biden has been there for five decades. And the only people who benefited from his policies were himself and his family, frankly.
Boo.
He shows up every four years and then goes back the Washington and caters to special interests. But my only interest is you. It’s very interesting. He’s raising… This sleepy guy is raising a lot of money, right? So he raises money. You know how he raises money? By making deals. That’s how you raise money. I would be the greatest political fundraiser in the history of the world. I could raise a billion dollars and give me two days.
(laughs).
Give me an extra day just in case.
(laughs).
All I have to do is, “Hey.” I know most of these guys one way or the other. “President of the United States is calling Mr. So-And-So from Goldman Sachs, etc.” “President.” “Oh, do me a favor send me 25 million please, for the campaign.” “Yes sir.” I would get… They wouldn’t even negotiate. I’d get so much, and I didn’t do any of it, right? And we did very nicely. We got a lot of small donations. But I didn’t do any of it, I never made a call. I never made a call. Everybody I called would give, I’m the president, I mean, unless you’re stupid you’re able to get a lot of money.
(laughs).
“Send me 10.” “Well sir, we’re having a hard time.” “All right. Send me five. That’s okay. Send me five.” I would’ve raised a billion dollars. But you can only spend so much. You can only buy so many commercials. We’ve got so many commercials, they have so many. But if Biden Harris… How about Harris? How about Harris?
Boo.
Kamala, Kamala. You have to pronounce her name right. It’s Kamala, like a comma, Kamala.
(laughs).
And yet she pronounces her name differently than that, doesn’t she, huh? Did Mike Pence beat her in the debate or what? Did anybody see the debate last week? Our debate? Right? Everything he’d say, I’d say, “Well why didn’t you do it Joe?” “Well, he should’ve done that.” Really? First of all, everything I have done. I said, “Joe. You were there for 47 years and you only left 3.5 years ago. Why didn’t you do it Joe?” “Well, I never thought of that.”
(laughs).
But if Biden and Harris, the radical left, gain power, they will crash the economy, destroy your farms, and all of the things I got you, like the estate tax. That’s going to be ended. They don’t want that. They fought us on that. And then America as we know it, you’ll have a socialist country. And America will never be a socialist country. Biden has vowed to abolish the American oil industry. This would be a death sentence, as you know, for ethanol. So all of those people I’ve gotten to know. I’ve gotten to know a lot of the ethanol people through Chuck and Joni and Kim, all of them. Yep, by the way, you do have a great governor, you know that right? I don’t even know. I don’t even know if she’s here. Is she here? There she is. I can’t see her under all that stuff.
(laughs).
Well, she’s definitely wearing a mask, I will say that.
(laughs).
She’s a great governor. The Biden Harris plan would outlaw American energy, would unleash economic misery for Iowa, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and every other state in America. Your energy costs would go up at a level that you’ve never seen. He wants to raise your taxes. And it’s not him. He has no clue. He’s shot, okay?
(laughs).
The guy has no clue. You know it, I know it, we’re all trying to be nice. But I knew him also for a while, he’s not a nice guy. If he was I wouldn’t talk this way. He’s the only man that ever-
… if he was, I wouldn’t talk this way. He’s the only man that I’ve ever seen, his whole campaign is, “We will raise your taxes.” I said I’ve never heard of it. All my life I’ve watched politicians, I grew up with politicians, they’re always saying, “We’ll cut your taxes.” He’s the only guy I know that says, “We’re going to raise your taxes.” So I cut your taxes with them, the highest level cut in the history of our country. He wants to raise your taxes more than anybody has ever raised your taxes. Let me just ask you, how do you get elected? I mean, aside from right, wrong, how do you get elected? So he wants to give you the largest tax increase in history. Now for one year he went along the [inaudible 00:19:48] he had 27 people running, right? Some ran well, some didn’t go so good. Well, Kamala didn’t do well, she was dropping like a rock and she was mean to him.
And everybody’s against fracking, okay? It doesn’t pertain to you, but it does as your energy cost because you want your bills to be low, so he’s going, “No frack, no frack, no fracking. There will be no fracking.” We’ve got a little play. I don’t know if they put it, they did, we spent the money for Iowa, look, see that? That board is expensive as hell. Whoa. Hey, Iowa must be a very important place. We’ve got a little show. We’ve got a little show. Look how beautiful. You see a beautiful board, I see a lot of money was spent on that. Wait until you see it, it’s incredible what they can do for money, but you’re going to see it in a second. But he goes, “No fracking,” for a year. “No fracking, there will be no fracking.” So he said this 100 times and then he goes to Pennsylvania and he goes, “I believe in fracking. We will have fracking.” And the fake news, look at all of them back there, every one of them, they’re fake and they’re more fake now than they ever were.
When are you going to look into Moscow and the three and a half million? When are you going to ask Moscow? I want to find out why did Moscow give where’s Hunter three and a half million? It must be his expertise. Where is Hunter by the way? Remember I said, “Where’s Hunter, is he here?” And then the next day they made a T-shirt. It was the number shirt of the year, where’s Hunter? No, but we want them to ask that question instead of what flavor ice cream are you having? They’ll terminate your school choice, eliminate your charter schools to fund religious schools, ban prayer in schools, indoctrinate your children, anti-American lies and force you to subsidize extreme late term abortion, that’s what they’re doing. That’s all in their platform, you got to read it. We call the manifesto between crazy Bernie, yeah, Bernie whose one of the greatest losers of all time. No, think of it. They stole two elections, not one. I’ve seen people where an election got stolen and by the way, we’re not going to let that happen to us with these ballots.
How about the Supreme Court ruling where the Supreme Court, no, this was not good, the Supreme Court gave them more time, more time. So what does this mean? Does this mean we go and we wait, so it’s not November 3rd, it’s going to be much later than that? No, no, we should know the result of the election on November 3rd, the evening of November 3rd. That’s the way it’s been and that’s the way it should be. What’s going on in this country? What’s going on? We believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Biden and Harris will eliminate the private health insurance plans of 180 million Americans, their socialist takeover will ration care and force you onto endless wait lists. You’re going to have wait lists, you know what we’ve done by the way for the military has been incredible. We’ve gotten rid of the wait list for our veterans.
Our opponents would pack the Supreme court with far-left justices and by the way, we’re into the voting now. It’s ridiculous, I liked election day and most of you do too, who is going to vote on election day? Okay. And who’s already voted? Okay. And you sent ballots in? Be careful with the ballots, be careful. Just be careful with those ballots, I don’t know. Our opponents would pack the court, but remember, a lot of people have already been, he has never said if he’s going to pack the court, he’s getting along the tap, tap, he’s doing a little tap, tap, tap. So he has not said until he says he’s not going to do that, you can’t vote for him and then on top of it, I created a list of 25, now it’s 45 and we just got a great one approved, these two approved them. Amy is going to be fantastic, right? Amy, they all love Amy. She’s going to be a fantastic, for a long time a Justice of the Supreme Court, she’s going to be there.
And we picked two other great ones and we’re very happy. We have three Justices of the Supreme Court. Many Presidents have never had a pick, they’ve never had a pick and I’ve had three, that’s just blowing their mind. Look, they’re saying, “How the hell did this happen? This guy is driving us crazy.” Well, the other thing we’ve done is, thank you to President Obama, he was unable to get anybody approved, he waited so long and we had little help too with the Senate to put it mildly, but he waited so long if you go early enough, you’ll get them through. And we ended up with 142 federal judges, but that’s nothing. So we’ll have, by the end of my first term, we’re going to have almost 300, could be more, 300 approximately 300 federal judges. So that’s 300 federal judges, three Justices of the United States Supreme Court. But Bernie never created a list, I have a list, so I take one from the list. People didn’t like it, they don’t vote for it because it’s they say the most important thing that a President does is Supreme Court Justices and judges. And he hasn’t given us the answer yet and he hasn’t given us a list and he can’t because they want far left maniacs and he won’t be able to get the votes. So you know what? He’s tapping you along, he doesn’t know he’s doing it, but he’s actually doing a very good job of it because people are voting and he still hasn’t given a list and he hasn’t said whether or not he’s going to pack the court. Look, nobody in this group is voting for this guy, nobody. He’s not qualified, he wasn’t Qualified in primetime, 25 years ago, he wasn’t qualified because he was never known as being the brightest bulb in the Lot. When it comes to your second amendment, they want to shred it. They want to abolish religious liberty and they want to ban God from the public square and you’ve seen that. So the Pledge of Allegiance during the Democrat convention, right? See, it’s supposed to be democratic, but it’s really not, it’s Democrat. Doesn’t sound as good that’s why I use it all the time.
No, it should be the Democrat, they should change their name it sounds nicer, I hate to even say it, but the Democrat convention or the Pledge of Allegiance they took the word God out and I heard it I said, “Oh,” you know that, I heard it and I said, “Oh, they must’ve made a mistake. They had a typo maybe, we’ll call it a typo.” And then I heard it a second time. And I think by the way, God is looking at us and saying, “We want to give you a nice, cool day today,” because that wind, I don’t know about you, but that wind is hitting me hard.
Look at these flags. Why the hell did my people put the stage right here for? And there’s the great Ivanka Trump who’s standing right there. Come here, Ivanka, come here. My poor daughter, she’s standing there freezing. Iowa’s not like this all the time, they wouldn’t grow great corn if it was like this. Look at that, it’s Ivanka Trump. Wow. I looked over here, I’m looking at the flags, those beautiful American flags that we love and respect and I see my daughter. Hello Ivanka. Would you like to hear from Ivanka? Come on.
Hello, Iowa. This is some serious energy and a little bit of cold, but you all warm up the room. Well, I love you and we all love this man, a warrior through and through who never forgets why he’s in Washington, why he ran for President and who he’s fighting for, which is you, the American people. What he has been able to accomplish in four years is extraordinary, but you know what? He’ll do that and then some if given another term, which you’re going to bring him to. He fights so hard for each of us every day and now we can fight for him and the future of this great country by using our voice and using our vote to win another historic victory for the people’s President. Get out and vote everyone. Thank you, God bless
That’s Ivanka. I said, “Ivanka, go down here. It’s warmer.”
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you. Boy, it looked cold out there. She’s all by herself under the flags. I said, “Stand next to Chuck Grassley where it’s nice and warm.” Chuck will keep you warm. He’s great. He’s a great guy, I’ll tell you that. The Biden/Harris agenda is they war on workers, they war on faith and a war on our police. To defend your God-given rights I appointed justice, Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court. We will defend, protect and preserve the American way of life. Joe Biden is the candidate of rioters, looters, arsonists, it’s hard to believe but you take a look at what’s going on in Philadelphia, he doesn’t even want to condemn it. Gun grabbers, flag burners, Marxists, lobbyists, and special interest. Other than that, he’s not a bad guy, right?
I’m the candidate of farmers, factory workers, police officers, hardworking people, law abiding patriots and every race, religion, color, and creed. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, that’s because I’m not a politician, thank you. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than anybody has ever fought before. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician and we know that, we know that, we have found that out. You don’t have to take my word for it. I’ve done something for you today that you’re going to love. Roll that screen right there, roll it.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it’s a positive thing to do and I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced the merch and workers to compete against people who are making pennies and [inaudible 00:31:36] has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The President is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
The rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. Rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which he supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you’ve supported, those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better, the USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA. We have to come together, that’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote! Vote! Visit iwill.com/ohio. God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe by the way, it’s not a real website and Joe you’re running for President, not Senator and by the way that Senator, the Mormon guy is Mitt Romney, not some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today, because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00AM, well, disaster ensues, here’s a quick reminder.
Look, tomorrow’s superstar Tuesday and I want to thank you all, I’ll tell you what, I’m rushing ahead aren’t I? We owe these truths to be self evident. All men and women are created by, you know the thing. If you agree with me, go to Joe 30330. We choose truth over facts. Play the radio, make sure you have the record player on at night, make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids are just as bright and just as talented White kids. Donald Trump does pose an excellent strength to this … It’s not hypothetical.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff and I am beginning, well, more than a little worry that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading. He’s been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the President of the United States of America, that would be the toughest job in the world and at times, Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for President or what state he’s in or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that if elected the Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George, we’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. Barack and I think it’s a right for people [inaudible 00:35:28]. Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t need you to get me elected, I need you once I’m elected … I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [inaudible 00:00:35:40].
Oh, we save a lot of words, don’t we? We save a lot of words. Our country has such unbelievable potential, let’s not blow it, go vote. This election is a choice between a Biden depression or a Trump super boom, we’re going to be booming. We’re going to have the greatest year, you had the best year we’ve ever had last year, we’re going to have the best year next year, we’re set for it. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown, he wants to lockdown, we’re never locking down or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and frankly, we’re going to end it any way. The vaccine’s are coming, they’re coming in a matter of weeks. It’s all set, we’re going to be delivering them to our elderly, we’re going to start with the elderly, the military, logistically are the best in the world, they’re going to be delivering it. And without the vaccine, you can have the vaccine, but without it, we’re rounding the corner.
We love you! We love you!
Thank you.
We love you!
Thank you.
We love you! We love you! We love you!
That’s really nice, I’ll tell you. That’s never been a chant that anybody’s ever heard. Even Chuck Grassley has never heard. We love Chuck Grassley, don’t we? No, but I’ve never heard of that one, Chuck. Not Reagan, not anybody, they’ve never heard, so it’s good. I appreciate it very much and I love you too, I do. We’ve developed groundbreaking therapeutics, excuse me, here I am. I took something that was pretty good because I woke up and I said, “I feel great, boom, Superman, right?” That’s true. And the first lady got it and Baron got it, now Barron’s a young guy, 14 and the doctor came to see me and he said, “Sir, your son tested positive.” I said, “For what? Tested positive for what?” “For COVID.” I think he used COVID, there’s about 29 different names we can use, the China plague. I think he used COVID, “He tested for COVID,” and I go, “Wow, that’s bad, that’s not good.”
Wow. That’s bad. That’s not good. 12 minutes later I saw the great White House doctor. “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay. He shed it. No problem.” So like 12 minutes. I said, “Barron, you feeling okay?” “Yeah, what was wrong? I had nothing wrong with me.” Young kids have a strong immune system, they knock the hell out of it. Send your kids back to school. We want to go back to school, right? For those states, Pennsylvania, frankly, the governor very bad lock down, and North Carolina, we’re winning in North Carolina, by the way, you know what’s going on, right? We’re winning in Florida. We’re winning in North Carolina. We’re winning in Pennsylvania. I think they’ve given up in Ohio. I think they’ve given up in Florida, frankly. And I think after the poll I saw from that very nice newspaper, that usually doesn’t treat me so well, but they treated me very well. I think maybe they’re going to give up on a place called Iowa pretty soon, too. I think they’ll give up on Iowa pretty soon.
We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks and we will quickly eradicate the virus, wipe out the China plague. We just want to get back to normal. That’s all we want. We don’t want much. We don’t want much. Just, let’s get back to normal. We had the greatest economy seven months ago, and then we had the plague. That’s not good. Think of what China has done to the world. Think of it. Now, just think. I see people that come in, they’re wrapped up in masks and, how you doing? Don’t touch. Don’t get close. Seriously, think of what China has done to the world. I had a group of people, not so long ago at a place, nice place. And they said, “President, President, could we say hello?” They’re wrapped in masks and it’s terrible. And they said, you couldn’t hear him because the mask. One person had the world’s thickest mask I’ve ever seen. I mean, and then the scientists was there. That one’s no good. That one’s okay.
But they’re saying, “President, President.” Successful people, good people. And I’m saying, “Look at these people.” I said, “Look at these people.” What China has done to us, but what China has done to the whole world, they could have kept it in. They kept it in from China, they had the Wuhan province, they kept it in. But it got out to Europe, to the US, and all over the world. Think of what they’ve done to us. Forget about their trade deal with your corn, okay? On the bigger picture, we did that great trade deal, but the ink wasn’t even dry. And all of a sudden, we got hit by this damn plague and we won’t forget it. We’re not forgetting it. And you can never forget it. We can never forget it.
The Biden plan will turn America into a prison state, locking you down while letting the far left rioters roam free to loot and burn. Think of it. Think of it. You can’t go to church. You can’t go to school. You can’t do anything. You have to stay in your house. But if you’re a looter, an anarchist, a rioter, you can run down the streets of Portland. You can run down the streets of anywhere you want. And there you have no problems. In fact, we got to a point because we were shut out from having protests, right? Rallies. So they said, “Well, you can’t have a rally, sir. You’re not allowed to have anything political.” I said, “What can you do?” The only thing you’re allowed to do is protest. I said, “Good. Let’s call our rallies from now on, protests.”
So this is a protest. We are protesting, but your governor wouldn’t do that to us. We don’t have to worry about Iowa. We don’t have to worry about Iowa. No, but you have some places, Minnesota. You saw that, we had 25,000 people that wanted to be there. And the attorney general, well, I will say one thing about him. He was the first one, I think, or just about, him and one other person. On day one, he said, this is four years ago, “You know that Trump is going to win, don’t you?” They said, “What do you mean?” He said, “Trump is going to win.” So in one way, can’t be so stupid, right? But the attorney general and the Governor of Minnesota said, “No, we can only allow 250 people.” We had 25,000 people that wanted to go. So I went there and they thought that I’d cancel for 250 people, because we’re drawing 25, 30, 40,000 people to every rally. So they figured I’d cancel. I said, “Nope, we’re not going to cancel on Minnesota.” Minnesota hasn’t been won by a Republican since 1972. And we’re going to win Minnesota because of that.
And actually, had we had the rally, we’d have 25, 30,000 people there. Thousands of people showed up and the governor had them locked out. Frankly, that was a much bigger statement than if we had the rally. If we had a rally, we would have had a big, beautiful rally, but it was a big statement. But between that and Omar, Ilhan Omar, she’s a real winner. Ilhan Omar, who obviously hates our country. She likes to tell us how to run our country. How the hell she gets elected anyways, hard to believe, but she’s in Minnesota. And the other thing is we stopped, I said, “You got to let the National Guard in,” they have to ask us, right? I said, “You got to let in the National Guard.” Well, a week and a half later, they let the National Guard in, and we stopped in, what would you say, 22 minutes? Remember, wasn’t that beautiful?
I mean, look, sometime, this week and a half they’re burning down Minneapolis, burning it down and CNN’s covering it. That reporter, he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas. [inaudible 00:06:00], he said, “I’m down, I got hit.” Don’t worry. It was only tear gas on the knee, he was down. But he was saying, “This is a friendly protest.” And you looked over his shoulder, right? The entire city was burning down. Did you see that? There’s a famous picture, the thing must’ve been like 10 blocks long. They should have called us sooner, but we put it out in about 15 minutes, maybe 20. That was a beautiful sight though, they just came in one, two, three, then all of a sudden more, more, you could just see the busloads. And they walked down that street with pepper spray and tear gas. And it was pow, pow. Everybody got, I’m telling you, less than a half an hour. It was all over. That thing lasted for two weeks.
Biden calls these lockdowns a dark winter. Wasn’t he inspiring at the debate? How bad was he? Look, I’ve debated guys that had intelligence. Look, I had a debate crooked Hillary four years ago, but I mean, at least she was as an intelligent person, she’s gone a little wacko. No, Hillary, you lost. Remember she said to me, “Will you respect the decision of the people?” And I sort of said, “Maybe.” I wasn’t perfect. I said, “Maybe, if there’s no cheating.” We have to be careful with cheating, right? But then she didn’t respect. And what did they do? They went on a witch hunt for years and years and they spied on my campaign and we caught them spying on the campaign. And now they say, “Will you respect the decision over the voters? And will there be a friendly transition?”
First of all, there’s not going to be a transition, we’re winning. But then you say, then you say, “Well, let me ask you. Four years ago, was there a friendly transition?” They were spying on my campaign before I even won. And what was worse was they were spying on my campaign after I won, to overthrow the President of the United States, okay? Which is called treason, which is called treason. And let’s see what the hell happens. I don’t know why it takes so long, but it takes a long time. I’ll tell you that man right there, Chuck Grassley is one of the most effective people. He’s one of the people that, he’s one of the people that does not want to let them get away with it. And I appreciate it, you know that. No, he’s one of the most effective guys. He was the man. He looked at Comey. Remember when Comey lied in front of Congress? He looked at Comey, he said, “Did you leak?”
Chuck is tough, when he’s talking regular he’s the toughest guy in the room. And Comey’s a liar. Worst Director in the history of the FBI, beyond the worst director. He was a bad guy. But Chuck Grassley is interviewing him, ask him. Then he looks at him, “One more question,” sort of like Columbo, right? I have one more question. Remember Columbo, hey, hey, hey, just one extra little question. So here he is, perry Mason also, always the last question, that was true. That was true during the debate, when he said the oil. I said, “Whoa, this is the biggest question of the night.” But with Chuck, he said, “Did you leak?” “What?” “Did you leak?” “Ah, yes. Yes I did.” And I’m sitting there saying, “I don’t believe this.”
Oh, we love Chuck. What a piece of work Chuck is. What a piece of work that man is. I like that guy. He’s tough as hell though. It’s true. I guess I was only giving the ethanol guys 99%, and Chuck couldn’t stand that, he wanted them. He wanted you people to get 100%, right? I said, “Chuck, I’ve got the papers all ready to sign.” “I don’t like them.” “Why?” “You didn’t get that one little thing, that one little morsel for the other side.” A little morsel right for the other side. Happened to be the oil industry. I said, “Could we give them something?” And it wasn’t any good. We love you, man. We love you. He ended up getting a hundred percent. But it all goes away with Sleepy Joe, just to remember that, Chuck.
The Biden lockdown will result in countless deaths, destroy millions in small businesses and wipe out an entire generation of hopes and dreams. Earlier today, one of his top advisors again confirmed their desire for a shutdown. The damage to children, you know that, you saw that, it was in the news. They want to shut it down. I don’t know. These people are crazy. We’ve got a thing that’s rocking and rolling. And it doesn’t work. The damage this will inflict on children, teenagers and young adults is absolutely cruel. The far left has always yearned to wield the unchecked power. That’s what they want is the power. I think it’s more than the power. I think it is the power and maybe the money. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then you cast your ballot for me and you have to do it on November 3rd.
You got to get over there, joining us today, got to get it done. We got to get it done. We got to get this election behind us and get to work. We have some great people in government. We have some great people that want to come into government, and our nation has unbelievable potential. I didn’t watch much of Biden’s speech. He made a little speech, little tiny. He does very short speeches, very short, they’re the shortest speeches I’ve ever seen, actually. He just wants to go home to the basement. He doesn’t want to be. He is the most unhappy warrior I’ve ever. Did you ever see? He’s agitated, he’s just angry and agitated and he doesn’t want to be there. And now he’s starting to lose in the polls and it’s driving him crazy. So what does he do? He brings in Barack Hussein Obama and you know what happened to his attendance? It went down, his attendance, it actually brought it down.
They called and they said the other day, a couple of weeks ago, they said, “Sir, have a little bad news.” “What?” “Barack Hussein Obama is going to a campaign with Biden.” I said, “Why is that bad news? That’s good news. He campaigned with Hillary, and that was when she started really getting beaten.” Remember that? He campaigned. He’s a highly overrated person. Well, he gave us 142 judgeships, we’ll take it.
Joining us today are some incredible people. And if they want to come up and freeze their ass off, they’re fine to come up. See you people are there and you’re nice and warm. I’m up here all by myself. That’s why I said, I said to my daughter, oh look, is that Hope Hicks? Where’s Hope Hicks, the great Hope Hicks. Get her. Is that Sarah Huckabee? You look like, come here, Sarah. You know what? You look like Hope Hicks. I thought Sarah Huckabee was Hope Hicks. Come up here Hope Hicks. The great Hope Hicks. Boy, we got them all. Come here, Sarah. How good is Sarah? Look at Sarah. Come up here, Sarah. Look at Sarah. She did pretty well being with Trump, right?
Thank you, Mr. President, how good does that sound? President Trump. He’s had an amazing four years. As a mom of three young kids, there’s nobody I trust more to build their future and protect our great country than President Donald Trump. We need everybody here to make sure they get out, because this is the most important election we’ve ever had. Everything is on the line and the only person strong enough, tough enough, and willing to fight for it is President Donald Trump. I’m so proud to be here. Thank you so much, Mr. President.
You want to go down here? It’s warmer. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. She could be Governor of Arkansas one day. I don’t know. Is that? Where’s Hope? Come here Hope. You know Hope, Hope Hicks. Come here Hope, come up here. The great Hope Hicks. Do you know Hope Hicks? She’s become very famous, very powerful woman. Very powerful. Look at her. Are you cold enough, Hope? Come on up, Hope. Are you having a good time?
Yes sir.
She does a fantastic job. I don’t know if she loves public speaking, just say hello.
Hi. How much do we love our president? Are you guys going to vote on Tuesday? Who are you going to vote for? We love you Iowa. Thank you.
Thank you. Good job. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks Hope. So we have a person that you know very well, who’s considered one of the best governors in our country and she is, and I work with her. She’s another one. She’s unrelenting. You had a little flooding problem, to put it mildly. You were like a swimming pool for a period of time. And Kim was on the phone. “Sir, we need money for the dykes, the dams,” whatever the hell we were calling them. “We got to get money.” And I said, “All right, Kim, is this enough?” “No sir, we got to have more and more and more and more,” but that’s what a good governor is, right? The ones that don’t call, they’re not as good, but we don’t want to tell them that. But she’s really considered one of the greatest governors in our country. And she’s a great person. A great husband, she’s got a great warrior husband too. I will tell you that. Kim Reynolds. Come on up Kim, if you can. Come on up.
Welcome back to Iowa. We’re so proud to have you here. And I’ve told you every time I had the opportunity to be in front of you, that we were going to carry Iowa for Donald J. Trump, and we are going to bring it home. We’re not satisfied with seven, we’re going for 10. We’re going to bring it home. Thank you. Thank you for everything. Thank you.
Thanks Kim. Great job. Thank you, Kim. She’s a dynamo, huh? Wow. I would say, whoa. Thank you, Kim. And Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg, Adam, thank you very much. Thank you. Doing a great job, Adam. Are we doing okay Adam? We’re doing good? Good. Bring it home Adam. Also with us, are two people, one is running and the other one doesn’t even have to run, even when he’s running. They say he might be the only politician in America who’s just not beatable. People don’t even run against him. He’s a great guy, but let’s get, because we have to do this. We have to get Joni Ernst elected. She’s fantastic. She’s so good. Joni, come up. Joni is fantastic and special woman, and she loves your state and she loves our country. Joni, please.
Thank you. And President Trump, we love you. Thank you so much. God bless you. There is not a finer president, and one that has done so much for our farmers and our ranchers and our biofuel producers. President Trump, Iowa loves you. I love you. God bless you. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you Joni. Thank you, Joni. Yeah. Get out and vote for Joni. She’s a terrific person and she really fights hard for the state, she really does. She really goes all at it. And the man that we’ve been talking a lot about today, I’ve talked about him so much and everybody knows who he is. Everybody in Washington respects him. Most people are deathly afraid of him, but I’ve gotten to know him. Actually, when you get to know him, he’s actually tougher than you even think-
Actually, when you get to know him, he’s actually tougher than you even think. But he’s a great man. He really is. He’s a great man. He’s been a great senator. I think somebody said he’s never missed a vote in all these years. And I’d love to have… either stay there or come right up here, Chuck. But we would love to have you. Chuck Grassley, really a legendary guy. A legendary guy. He really is. He’s something special.
While we were warming up the crowd for you in this cold day, and I think that’s an impossible task. But I said the four words that ought to be the most used for you to be reelected is, promises made, promises kept. And one of the things that you didn’t make a promise on that has really materialized anyway… and that is your leadership in peace in the Middle East. And nominated by three parliamentarians, other countries, for the Nobel Peace Prize. That’s pretty darn good. And you’re going to continue to work for peace.
That’s right. I am.
Yeah, and we thank you very much. Iowa’s going to go for you big time, and we’re going to have such a successful election that CNN and MSNBC is going to have to change their policies when they realized for four years that they couldn’t get you out of office, and the people back you up, you’ll be in there and they’ll have to change.
Thank you very much. Great job, Chuck. Thank you. Unique man. Great guy. Agricultural secretary Mike Nagy. Where’s Mike? Where’s Mike? Thank you, Mike. How’s it going? Okay. Your agriculture is strong. You got a check for 28 billion, your percentage, right? How did you split that up? But you did a good job. And somebody that happens to have a very good end named Pat Grassley. You know, Pat? Pat Grassley… We talked about that. What good genes he’s got? And another man who has done a fantastic job. I hope he’s here. But he was your governor for 24 years. He set the record. And he told me a story. A story that many, many years ago, he met a man in China, and he came home and he told his wife, they were young men together, and they were buying corn or… One was a buyer. One was a seller. I don’t know how the hell it worked.
But he met a man, and his name was Xi. His last name Xi. Then he came home years ago, many years ago, and he told his wife, “I have just met a future president of China.” And they were friends after that. And it turns out to be President Xi, current president Xi, the president of China. And when I met President Xi, he said, “Terry Branstad, the governor, is a very good friend of mine. We’ve known each other for 35 years.” So, Terry becomes governor again… 24 years. Longest serving governor in the history of the country. Okay. When you’re a governor for 24 years, that’s a long time. And I called him, in the middle of his term. I said, “Terry, they like you and China. President Xi has great respect for you. How would you like to be the ambassador to China,” and he said, “You know, sir, I think after 24 years, maybe it’s time.” And he represented us so well. He is so smart and so tough. And so we’re a… Come on up here, Terry. What a great job he’s done. So he wanted to come back, and he wanted to make sure that we get reelected. That’s what he wanted to do. But what a job he’s done. Thank you very much. Please.
Mr. President, we are so honored to have you in Dubuque on the Sunday before the election. On the Sunday before the election four years ago, you were in Sioux City, and we’re glad that you’ve come back the Sunday before the election this time. The polls have you in the same position, seven points up over your opponent.
But what I want the people of Iowa and American to know is nobody had the courage to stand up to the Chinese like President Donald Trump. And it’s made a real difference. He asked Xi if he would make all of Fentanyl a controlled substance, and it’s saving thousands of lives in America. He had the courage to put sanctions on the Chinese to get us a fair reciprocal trade agreement, which we’d never had before. And it’s already risen the price of corn a dollar a bushel. Soybeans are over $10. They made record purchases. We need a strong president, and Trump is the one that can do the job for the next four years. I’m proud to be back in Iowa, proud to be back in America, and here to support Donald Trump, Joni Ernst and our entire team.
Great job. Thank you. What a great guy. We have great… You have great people. There’s a lot good genes in this state, right? Thank you very much. Is Eric here? Is your son here? Where’s… Where? Oh look at you. I didn’t recognize you with that big, beautiful hat on. Are you doing good? Are we doing okay? That’s great. He has a father who’s very proud of him, I have to tell you. Thank you, Eric. Great job you’re doing.
And Iowa GOP chair Jeff Kaufmann. He’s been fantastic from day one. Thank you, Jeff. It looks good, Jeff, huh? Looking good, Jeff. Take it through. You bring it through, Jeff. I have no doubt about you. He’s a great chairman. One of the best. Congressional candidates, Ashley Hinson, who’s unbelievable. Come here quick, Ashley. Come here, Ashley. And Mariannette Miller-Meeks, and Esther Joy King. Come on up here. Come on. Get up here. Say a couple of words because you are doing fantastic [inaudible 01:03:56].
Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for coming back to Iowa. Iowa is Trump country. We want to tell you we’ve been traveling throughout the state, Mariannette Miller-Meeks and Esther Joy King. We are going to take these seats back, because what we want to do, we want to fire Nancy Pelosi. You need a partner in Congress so you can get your MAGA agenda done, and we are going to be there for you, Mr. President. So thank you for coming to Iowa.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Our first vote, Mr. President, will be for Speaker of the House, and we’re going to say to Nancy Pelosi, “You’re fired.”
Nice to meet you, sir.
Nice to meet you.
As a soldier in the United States Army Reserve, I just want to say thank you, thank you for your support for the military, sir.
Great. Thank you very much. Great people. Really great people. And we have, we’ve rebuilt the entire military. We’ve rebuilt it over three and a half years, and that’s why we can’t worry too much about budgets. They can’t say, “Gee, we kept within budget,” but who are those people running up the White House lawn? We don’t like that, right? Now we have the strongest military now that we’ve ever had. Strongest in the world, by far.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in American history. As you probably know, the wall, which they no longer want to talk about… The wall is almost complete. We did 412 miles. We’re doing approximately 10 miles a week, and it’s done to the highest standard what the border patrol desired, and it has been amazing. And we have now the safest Southern border, and Joni and Chuck worked very much with me on that, and it’s been amazing. We really had a great success. That’s why you don’t hear about it anymore. That’s why you don’t hear about it anymore. They used to love it when they didn’t think we’d get it built. We had a hard time. That was a hard one. The Democrats were a wall. They were their own wall. Remember they said walls don’t work. I said, “walls work and wheels work,” right? Everything else becomes obsolete very quickly.
Joe Biden is fledged to free healthcare for illegal aliens. That would bankrupt your Medicare, and totally bankrupt, destroy Social Security. I will always protect Medicare and Social Security. We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. Military. We now have the greatest equipment we’ve ever had. We have the greatest equipment anywhere in the world. We are the envy of the world, Russia, China, North Korea. We are the envy.
We have the best planes, the best fighter jets, F-35 Stealth. You can’t see them. They’re very, very tough to see. Very tough to beat a plane in the air when you can’t see it. But we have the best planes, the best ships… Submarines, we’re doing submarines like nobody’s ever seen before. We have the best rockets and missiles. We have the best of everything. And our nuclear now is tippy top. And just hope to God we never have to use it. You know that, right? You know that. And the best way that we won’t have to use it is to have it in shape like we have it now. But we have the best equipments. We have the hypersonic missiles that go seven times faster than the world’s current fastest missile. And these were things that should have been done before me, but they didn’t decide to do that. So it’s one of those things. We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability for our veterans. Nobody thought that could be done. We took out 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria, and we killed the leader of ISIS Al-Baghdadi. They were looking for him for a long time. We took out the mass murder of U.S. troops and many other people. Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, recognized the true capital of Israel, and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.
I also recognized Israeli sovereignship over the Golan Heights. They worked 52 years and we got it done in two hours, approximately. And instead of endless war in the… And when you look, this is what Chuck was just saying… What we’re doing… It’s amazing what we’re doing. We have three countries signed up. We have many… they’re all coming in. We’re forging peace in the Middle East without blood in the sand, without money, money, money that they would spend. A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. Remember the party of Abraham Lincoln, the late great Abraham Lincoln. People forget, but it’s the American dream.
Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing super power of the world, and we will end our reliance on China. That’s already begun. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults or law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. Your Second Amendment.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which is so good. Starts January 1st. Lower drug prices even more. We’re going favored nations. The drug companies are not in love with me. Favored nations. We’ll be paying the lowest drug prices anywhere in the world instead of the highest drug prices of the world. But the big pharma… I don’t even want to look at Chuck and Joni, because I have no idea if they’re… You know, the biggest lobbyists in the world, right? They spend more money. I can tell you, they’re making more commercials about me than sleepy Joe is, but we had to do it. Somebody had to do it. Only a non-politician would do that. And you pay a press, but we have to do the right thing. You’ll see a 50, 60, 70% reduction in drugs.
And I got the only reduction last year. We got it down a little bit, one percent. It came down. It’s not that I’m bragging about it, but in 52 years… first time in 52 years the drug prices came down. So we’re sort of… I’m semi proud. At least it didn’t go up. I’m semi proud, but you’ll see what happens with what we’re doing with favored nations. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon in the United States. We’ll be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. It’s all done, our space center. NASA is incredible. It was a closed up, boarded up mess when we took over three and a half years ago. Now it’s, again, the envy of the world. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. Right?
And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and standing up for the great people of Iowa, and Wisconsin. And Wisconsin. We didn’t forget you, because you’re going to vote us in too. We’re going to be there very soon. We love Wisconsin. Wisconsin came through for us four years ago too, and we won’t forget that. To save the America we love. Get every last person you know… Get them to the voting booth in record numbers. Vote, vote, vote.
Join the red wave. We have a giant red wave that’s formed. It’s formed. It’s formed from Cambridge to Council Bluffs, to Cedar Rapids, to Rock Rapids, from Davenport to Dubuque. We inherit the legacy of American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you help build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help… Thank you. Your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Iowa and Wisconsin back there, we have made America powerful again. Our military, our beautiful military. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again.
Thank you Iowa. Thank you Wisconsin. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you everybody. I hope it’s cold enough for you. Thank you everybody. Have a good time. Get out and vote.
… done that for you, for your families, for your communities and for your future of this country.
I recently read a quote that I thought was so amazing by the legendary Winston Churchill. He said, “It was a nation that had the lion’s heart. I just had the luck to give it its roar.” How much does that remind you of our President and this movement? Did he give all of us the roar? Yes, he did. He made all of us take a hard look at our own convictions and ask ourselves, what do we want for our country? We want jobs. We want opportunity. We want to believe in American greatness, and that’s what’s on the ballot. With your help, with your support, and with your votes in two days from now, we are going to win four more years for the people’s president, my father, Donald J. Trump. Thank you, and God bless you. God bless Michigan.
(Singing.)
Does anybody have a coat I could use please? This is definitely not the right one. Hello Michigan, hello Michigan. And thank you very much for four years ago, but I gave you a lot of auto plants. So I think we’re even right? And we have a lot more moving in, a lot more moving in.
Thank you very much. I love you too. If I didn’t, I wouldn’t be standing here because it’s freezing out here. Think of this this, two days, now we’re down to two days. Two days from now, we are going to win the State of Michigan again, and we are going to win four more years in that very beautiful place called the White House.
Over the last four years, I fought for Michigan like no one has ever fought for Michigan. Before I became president, the great state of Michigan was hemorrhaging your car companies, and your car businesses. And thanks to corrupt politicians like Joe Biden, he’s turned out to be a corrupt politician, he is corrupt. Plants were closing and moving to Mexico and many other places, you know that, you know that better than anybody. There had no new plants had been built in Michigan in decades and decades before I got here. I stopped the moves, and now many plants are being built and already have been built. Plants are being expanded. The automobile business is coming back.
I told countries, Japan, Germany, and others, “Sorry, you have to bring it into our country.” And I always used to say like, “Michigan, I think of Michigan when I think of cars,” and I’d say, “Michigan,” but I’d say, “Ohio,” and I’d say, “South Carolina,” and plenty the other places, and we’ve brought back millions of car and millions of cars produced a year. But the biggest beneficiary is right here, right here.
I’m standing up to the global special interest who got rich bleeding America dry. You know that wind is coming right into my face. And I’m saying, it’s hard to breathe! They set this place up great. I wind is pouring in as I’m talking, it’s pouring in up the mouth, up the nose; this is very pleasant. This is very pleasant.
I hope they don’t report this one for posterity, okay. This is a crazy place, but we love Michigan. Good job. Good job. I’m just saying, whoever set this up, they could have had a little angle, how about if they had a little angle?
The corrupt establishment hates me because I don’t answer to them. I answer to you, which is true. I’m with your vote we will continue to bring you jobs back, to enact fair trade, you saw what we’ve done, but think of all the plants, just forget about everything else. You didn’t have any auto plants four years ago. I got Man of the Year in Michigan, 12 years ago and I left, I said, I made a speech, I said, “You know, Mexico and Canada, they’re taking all your car business. Why are you letting that happen?”
It turned out to be quite a controversial speech. It was true, but it was controversial. It was very controversial. I laugh, I’m saying, “My people are geniuses, real geniuses.” But you know what? It turned out to be true. And since then we’ve been doing things like nobody’s ever done. Cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and ensure that more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful words, that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.”
Thank you very much. So we had the luck of having Ivanka here. So I said, “Yeah, you introduce me.” And I’ll tell you, that was the shortest introduction she’s ever given me and now I understand why. I understand, thank you darling, it was actually under the circumstances not too bad.
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening, you see what’s happening. We had growth like nobody has ever seen in this country, or probably any other country, 33.1%. And they hardly, the fake news hardly makes it a story. But right now they don’t care, they’re just trying to survive. Look at them back there. They’re just trying to survive. Joe Biden will shut down your economy, raise taxes, wants a $4 trillion tax increase; he’s the only politician I’ve ever seen who said, “We will raise your taxes.” You said most of [inaudible 00:09:25].
“Will not frack!” You know, he said that for a year, and then when he came to Pennsylvania, goes like, “Oh yeah, I guess it’s okay.” No, no, there won’t be energy. They’re going to go to the Green New Deal. The Green New Deal will destroy our country. The Green New Deal is done by AOC plus three, right? I don’t think they ever took, you think they ever took a course on the environment? I wonder? Did you ever have a course on, let’s say the environment? The Green New Deal… at first I thought they were kidding. Then they said, “You know, some…” Actually they are kidding, you know that? They get it, they get it, they’re kidding. But you’re going to have to pay for their kidding.
They want to close down your factories, ship your jobs to China, eliminate private healthcare, destroy the suburbs. I got rid of the, you know, I always say, “Women [inaudible 00:10:20].”
The women, that was them speaking; the women of the suburbs, you’ve got to love me, I got rid of the regulation that will ruin the suburbs. I cut it out. I said, “Let’s terminate it Ben, let’s just terminate it.” But if they come back, then Cory Booker is going to be in charge, and that regulation will not be good. You know, we saved the suburbs.
They want to abolish oil, coal, natural gas, and send your state into a… You know what’s going to happen here? You’ll have a depression. You will have a depression. Your gasoline will go up to six, $7. How do you like the $2 gasoline? Did you like that? Well, you know, you’ll have it for a long time if you elect Trump, if you don’t, you’re going to be boom.
The damage that Biden and Harris would inflict would endure for many generations, you can’t fix it easy, you can’t fix it easy. Under my leadership our economy is now grow and get the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%. This was announced yesterday, right? It was just announced, they didn’t make a big deal out of it. If this were announced with Obama, they’d say, “This is the greatest president ever.” You know, he’s so great that he left me 142 judges to fill, right? 142.
You know what if I were a Democrat, and think of it, I’m a Democrat, and my president left me 142 slots of judges, that’s why we’re going to be at 300 judges, and three Supreme Court judges.
They said, “Sir, the wind isn’t so strong.” No, it’s about 50 miles an hour. I think it’s a minus 20 degree wind chill. They caught wind chill, right? This is a true test, but I love the people of Michigan, we won, we won. It’s worth it. It’s worth it. It’s worth it. It’s worth it. We won last time, right? It’s worth it. If we didn’t win last time, I probably wouldn’t even be standing here, I’d get up here and say, “No, thanks. This is [inaudible 00:12:59].” Like the great Pavarotti, the singer, you know, he was a diva, he was the greatest of all divas, he was an incredible talent with the most unbelievable voice. And I’ve gone to concerts where he would say, “No, no, no, no. I do not feel good, I will sing tonight,” and then he’d leave. And then I’ve gone to some where it was the most unbelievable voice that ever lived. I mean the greatest, right, Pavarotti? He liked me for whatever reason. He was very terrible to other people, to me he was nice, he liked me.
But he goes, “Donald, Donald, I will not sing tonight. You don’t have a thousand people, I will not sing tonight because I do not feel… I will leave tonight, I’ll…” and then leave. We’d say, “Ladies and gentlemen, he’s just canceled.” But when he was great, he was great. But now I feel like him, I say, “Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, I’m getting…” No, I don’t have that, I’m not a diva.
While foreign nations are in free fall, we are creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse. We are the economic envy of the world, and now the military envy of the world, we have the greatest new equipment anywhere in the world.
A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under Obama-Biden. And we’re rounding the turn on a pandemic, think of that. So, and that’s a record. In my first three years, I raised middle-class family incomes $6,500. That was in a three-year period. Whereas the Biden-Harris agenda was projected, and is projected to, if you go by their crazy plan, Wall Street Journal, you’re going to lose $6,000. They’re going to take it out, and they’re going to waste it. But it’s not six, it’s much more than that. And we’re going up to a substantial number. That’s not including energy. And if you think about energy, when you’re at $2, and your electric bills are nice and low, when they get rid of all our petroleum products and other things, everything, and they go to wind; let’s build windmills all over the place, let’s litter the landscape, let’s have littered the lands…
You know, when you build a windmill, I’m not against wind, it should be in industrial areas maybe, but it’s very expensive, very expensive. And if you want to see a lot of dead birds, all you have to do is go to the bottom of a windmill. If you’d like to see a lot of dead birds, go to the bottom of… they pile up. They don’t know what to do with them. I’ll tell you, it’s crazy. And they’re environmentalist. They want wind. And when the wind doesn’t blow, “Let’s watch President Trump’s speech tonight, State of the Union, he’s done very nice to State of the Union,” with Nancy ripping it up in the back, crazy Nancy.
“Let’s watch President Trump, let’s watch his…” and the man, the husband would say, “Darling, I’m sorry we can’t. The wind is not blowing today; it’s intermittent.” They call it intermittent television. We’ll have a network, Intermittent Television. No, we have to power our great factories, we have to power our great, these plants, these great plants and factories and you can’t do it that way, maybe someday, but right now…
And solar, I like solar. It’s extremely expensive and it doesn’t have near the power that you need for what we’re talking about, no. And you know, when we do what they want us to do, but China doesn’t do it, and Russia doesn’t do it, and India doesn’t do it, we will be at such a competitive disadvantage we might as well just fold up the tent. We have the number one economy in the world right now by far, by far; and we’re not losing it on my watch, I can tell you that!
Joe Biden, Sleepy Joe, spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign-
… American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. Michigan lost half of its auto job thanks to Biden’s NAFTA and China disasters. You know that. It’s amazing, nobody saw the debate the other night, right? Nobody? Did you notice the way I kept saying, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” He’d say, “Well, I would do this, and I would do that, and I would…” I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it? You were there for 47 years, and you just left three and a half years ago. Why didn’t you do it, Sleepy Joe, you sleepy guy?” Sleepy.
You see him now he’s got the shades on, comes out, “Hey, hey, hey. Hey, be quiet up there. Be quiet.” He said, “They keep clapping up there.” They’re all our people. We have more people show up. They’re our people. He’s very agitated. You know how angry he is? He’s so angry. You know why he’s angry? Because he’s losing, that’s why he’s angry. No, he’s very agitated. I don’t think he knows he’s losing. I don’t think he knows anything, actually.
No, he’s very, very angry and agitated. But now he’s got the shades, what do they call them? Aviators? But they’re too small, they should be bigger. Got the little shades on, doesn’t have to work on the eyes. But it is something. Do you see the way our people… They were protecting his bus yesterday because they’re nice. They had hundreds of cars. Trump, Trump. Trump, and the American flag. You see Trump and Americans flag. Do you ever notice when you see the other side, I don’t even see much of the other side. They have no spirit, they have no enthusiasm, they have no nothing. But you know what? I don’t see them, but whenever you see a small group because it’s got to be small because there’s nobody around. Nobody cares. But you see these groups, you never see an American flag. I always say if you look at a group and you don’t see the American flag, you know that’s the opposition.
I say to Congress, and I’m going to do very hard for this because we have to go through a big deal, but I say when somebody burns the American flag they should go to jail for one year. I say that. Even the sister… Oh, look at the sisters. You agree with me. That’s great. These beautiful sisters, wow. Well, we’re with you, you know that. Little sisters of the poor, I’m with them, and we did a good job. Are you cold? Are you cold right now? Don’t be too cold. They go, “No.” God will keep you warm, I know that. So beautiful, so beautiful.
We’re going to do that because I thought I could just institute it, maybe do an executive order. They, “Oh, you can’t do that, sir. It has to go through a whole big deal,” but we’re going to do it. We’ll get guys like Jim Jordan and some of our great congressmen, we’ll get our great congressman. You have some of the great ones right here. We’re going to get some of our congressmen and women, and we’re going to put in legislation, you burn the American flag… I see it with Antifa they’re constantly, yesterday they were burning it. Antifa. You burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. It’s very simple. Okay? I like it.
Biden embraced the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for your auto industry in your State. If it was okay with you, I canceled it. It never got off the ground for us. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and took the toughest ever action against China, and ended the long nightmare of American economic surrender. Now we have the USMCA, which is great for you, and your companies won’t be leaving. Just kicked in, your companies won’t be… One thing I had to have. Wait, I have to look this way so I can breathe. The wind is so strong you can’t breathe, I’ve never had that before. It’s pouring in. Man, this is a beauty. This is a hell of a day. You guys must love Trump. This place is packed. It feels so good, when I look at them it’s perfect, but they didn’t set it up right. That’s okay. We’ll get by it.
A vote for Biden is a vote to completely eradicate… You will eviscerate your auto industry. It will be terrible. We can’t do it. We’ve worked very hard to bring it back. I met with Prime Minister Abe of Japan, great guy, he’s since retired. He had a problem with health, but fantastic man. I said, “Shinzo, you have to send plans to Michigan. You have to send plans to the United States.” And he said, “No, no, no. I can not do that. That is a private decision.” I said, “Shinzo, you’re a powerful man. I’m sure you can do it.” “No, no, no.” I said, “You have to do it Shinzo, because you’re making too many cars sending them here. We want them made in the United States, you have to do it.” He says, “Well, I can’t.” The next day they announced they were five companies moving to Michigan from Japan. That was Japan. He’s a great guy, that one, I’ll tell you.
While Biden was giving China your jobs, his family raked in millions and millions of dollars from the Chinese communist party. Think of that. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who bought and is paid for… Look, he’s bought and paid for by China. How about his son? His son walks in… He’s supposed to be fair. Now, how the hell can this guy deal with China? His son’s like a human vacuum cleaner. “Hey Dad, what country are you going to today?” “China.” “Oh, good, maybe I can take in a couple of million.” But really, it’s not that. It’s much more. “Let me follow you, Dad. I’m the vacuum cleaner. Let me follow. I’ll give you a 10%. Hey Dad, I’ll give you a 10%.” He took in a billion and a half, and with no experience he’s managing a billion and a half dollars. His big one was he wants China to pay $10 million a year for recommending service. He’s going to recommend. He’s going to introduce. I guess he calls it introductory services. He’s introducing his father.
Sister, do you think this is honest? Do you think so? They all said no. That’s good enough for me, Sister. I’ll tell you. How about Ukraine? The kid, do you have any energy experience? “No.” When was the last time you worked? “Well, I was thrown out of the military. I haven’t worked at a long time.” Oh, I see. But you know something about energy now? Well, we’d love to have you serve on the board of Burisma. Would $183,000 a month be satisfactory? “No, I’d like you to make an upfront payment of $3 million.” Okay, so we’ll give you an upfront payment of $3 million. We’ll give you 183,000 a month. Would you be? “Yes, we’ll accept that. But we want very big escalation over the course of a year.” Oh, we’ll work that out too. This is so corrupt. This is so corrupt.
And how about [inaudible 00:07:42]? Russia, Russia, Russia. Did you see the laptop from hell? Now Shifty Schiff. Schiff, you know, the world’s most dishonest politician, Schiff? Shifty Schiff, he said he thinks the laptop from hell was created by Russia. You know in Russia they probably looked, they said, “Oh no, here we go again.” These politicians, a friend of mine said… A great guy, very successful guy. He’s not really a friend anymore because he keeps calling me Mr. President. He used to call me, “Hey Don, let’s have dinner.” Very successful, Richard. “Hey Don, let’s have dinner. Let’s get together.” And you’d talk, and you’d have fun. You know, it’s normal, right?
Now he calls, “Hello Mr. President, sir. How are you? How are you doing? Is everything good?” I said, “Yeah, it’s good. Richard, you don’t have to call me Mr. President. It’s just, I can’t…” It’s like you lose all your friends because they’re intimidated by the office. Does that make sense? You don’t have any friends. I have my friends in Michigan. We have our friends in Michigan. Hello, Mr. President. I said, “Richard, call me Donald.” “Okay, Donald,” do what I said, “Mr. President, thank you very much.”
Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Hey, at least we’re having a good time. Is there any place to have a better time than a Trump rally? It’s very serious times, but you know when it’s cold like this and it’s probably less than zero with the wind chill, and with the wind blowing directly. This was a person that works for us that doesn’t like me probably very much. But no, it’s direct. But we’re having a good time. I’m having a good time. Enjoy your contest. It’s really a contest to see whether or not we could all stand it, right? And we’ll get through it and we’ll love it. We’ll love it, and I’m loving it. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, America wins.
In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president who is finally putting America first. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and nobody has ever fought harder for you. Remember this Michigan because you got to vote. The big thing, you got to go vote Tuesday. If you don’t vote for me after this deal, I’ll tell you. No, I don’t want you to do that. I want you because we did a great job, we brought back your car industry. Your car industry was finished. You would’ve had nothing left.
If I wasn’t president, I really believe everybody would have moved back out to Mexico and these other places. By the way, the USMCA puts you on a whole different footer. You know how I know? Because Mexico and Canada didn’t love the deal. They didn’t love it. They’re not so thrilled, they like the old deal much better. They used to say every 15, “Why don’t we just keep the old deal?” No, thank you. You don’t have to take my word for it on Biden’s 47 years of treachery and betrayal, we have it on tape. You’ll see this. Where the hell is it? Oh, there. We only do this for areas that we like because that sucker is expensive. Seriously, just holding it up in this wind. Go ahead. Roll it.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people making pennies, and [inaudible 00:29:00] has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about.
Rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China with the United States and the rest of the world. Rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation, and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, that they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which he supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which he supported. Those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
Doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA. We have to come together, that’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So, vote! Vote! Visit [inaudible 00:13:36].com/Ohio. God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe, by the way, it’s not a real website, and Joe you’re running for President, not Senator, and by the way, that Senator, the Mormon guy, is Mitt Romney, not some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00 AM disaster ensues. Here’s a quick reminder.
Look, tomorrow’s superstar Tuesday, and I want to thank you all. I tell you what, I’m rushing ahead, aren’t I? We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created by… You know the… You know the thing. Do you agree with me? Go to Joe 30330. We choose truth over facts. Play the radio. Make sure the television… Excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night, the phone. Make sure the kids here weren’t. Poor kids are just as bright and just as talented white kids. Donald Trump does pose an excellent strength to this… It’s not hypothetical.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff, and I am beginning… Well, I’m more than a little worried that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading. He’s been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the president of the United States of America. That would be the toughest job in the world, and at times Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for President, or what State he’s in, or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that if elected that Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George… George… We’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have [inaudible 00:32:53] care. Folks, we got a lot of work to do. I don’t need you to get me elected, I need you once I’m elected. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [inaudible 00:16:04].
Come on, we know.
Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump.
That is something, that is something. I don’t know. You know what? Our country’s great. We have such great potential. You can’t do that. You can’t do that. We want to be nice. You know the good news? He’s not a nice guy, so I don’t feel bad. I don’t feel bad at all. One of the biggest issues for Michigan in this election is the subject of refugees. With this weather, you don’t have to worry about it. They’ll never come. They’re never coming. [inaudible 00:33:58] they said, ” I’m going back. This is terrible.”
I’m going back. This is terrible.
It’s freezing. I want to go back immediately to Syria. Syria never looked so good. To protect our national security, I suspended the entry of refugees from foreign nations, compromised by terrorism. You know that, if it’s okay with you, I’m going to do that. And you see what’s happening in France. You see that mess that’s going on over there. I called the President with condolences, but they’re having a big problem.
Biden has pledged with Bernie, the manifesto, 700% increase. They’ve agreed to this in refugees from the most dangerous terrorist spots in the world, Syria, Somalia, Yemen. The Biden plan will turn Michigan, Minnesota, and many other Midwest great states into refugee camps, which I’m sure you’re thrilled about. Sure you’re thrilled about. He’s also vowed to terminate all of the different elements of, look, we have some very strong bans, some very, very strong bans, and he wants to terminate, I got a travel ban that was tough stuff to get it. And it was not easy, but he wants to terminate the travel ban. And we have a travel ban that works, when we have people that hate us or do have countries that hate us, they come out of regions that are a disaster. We don’t want them in our country. We don’t want them, but it would have allowed, what they want, they want to allow virtually unlimited immigration into our country. They want to allow virtually unlimited access into our country. They want to, healthcare, education. I mean the whole thing is crazy. It’s just crazy.
There’s no way you’re putting that guy in. I don’t believe it. There’s no way. The people of Michigan are too smart and we’ve come too far together. This place was a mess. This place was a mess four years ago. And frankly, if you governor opened up your state, which she has to do, well Biden, Biden’s all about lockdowns. He loves a lockdown. Well, she’s tough on everybody but her husband, he can do whatever he wants. I’m not just running against Joe Biden. I’m running against a left wing mob, the left wing media, big tech giants. I’m running against the rhinos. They’re probably the worst of all, and a running against the swamp. The swamp is very deep and very vicious or they are not happy with the job we’ve done.
And by the way, I don’t know if you’ve been watching what’s going on with the election and this isn’t even polls anymore, this is like fact, these are people going out and voting. We’re doing very, very well. We’re leading all over the place. We’re supposed to be leading after the great red wave is going to come over the next little while, it’s coming, it’s building. It’s got to be a wave like I think, and this is far beyond the last one. This is going to be a wave like nobody’s ever seen before. Tuesday, did you vote? Tuesday, right? Tuesday, Tuesday, super Tuesday we’ll call it, right? Tuesday’s going to be beautiful, great red wave. But we’re leading even before we get there, we’re supposed to like, they have all these crazy ballots, millions and millions of ballots. Well, we’re leading a lot of places before, we’re supposed to be way down, and then we catch up and we win, we nip them, like a race horse, right?
But we’re leading before we get to the race. They’re very worried, and they’re very worried. They said the black community, the Hispanic community, what’s going on? It’s voting for Trump. What’s going on? They don’t get it. What’s going on? They don’t get it. They still don’t get it. People cannot stand the censorship from the media and big tech either. It’s one of the reasons we’re doing well, because they understand. They no longer feel they’re getting the truth from the media. It’s a big factor. They’ve lost confidence in the media. They have no confidence in big tech and they’re tired, very tired, of cancel culture. They’re tired of being told what to think and what to do. And I’ll tell you, it’s having a big impact in this race. People get it. People are smart. The backlash against this censorship is driving more and more people to support our campaign.
Who would have thought this was going to happen? This took place two weeks ago, when they wouldn’t look at, where’s Hunter, right? There he is. Where’s Hunter? No, two weeks ago when they wouldn’t look at where’s Hunter, because we’ve officially made his first name Where, right? It’s everyone’s constantly. That is called the laptop from hell, and they didn’t want to look at it. They want nothing to do with it. No matter what they do. Look, the greatest crime, political crime ever in this country, was spying on our campaign that they got caught, right? That was the greatest crime. And let’s see what happens. Let’s see what happens.
But this is something that’s really big and they don’t even want to talk about it. They don’t want to write about it. They don’t want to talk about it, but you know what the people understand and you get to see it. You have a small handful of young, arrogant, obnoxious, also brilliant young people. They’re worth a lot of money. Silicon Valley CEOs. And they’re trying to take over our world. Not going to happen. Hey, let’s “So this. They said to me, the first election, they said, “Sir, you can’t fight big tech and you can’t fight the media.” And then we won. And I said, “Oh really?” Now they say it again, “You cannot fight big tech and you cannot fight the media.” I want to win again, if, for no other reason, for no other reason.
But you can defeat them. If you have the right ideas, the right policy, if you have the right thoughts and you have people that are smart and they don’t go for fake news because it’s fake news, I’ve been calling it, one of the great terms, I hope they give me credit for fake news. That was a great term. Now I call it corrupt news, because it’s gone beyond fake. It’s totally corrupt. But vote on November 3rd, you vote. We’re going to have an election. And you know, I never thought I’d say, because what we did was incredible four years ago, this is more important. This is going to be the, this could be the most important election in the history of our country.
Because if that side gets in, those maniacs, AOC plus three. Ilhan Omar, Ilhan Omar. They’re going to put Ilhan Omar in charge of immigration. She will be in charge of immigration. If these people, they’re maniacs, who don’t like our country. You think Ilhan Omar, that’s one of the reasons we’re going to win Minnesota, because of Ilhan Omar. How the hell did she get elected? I guess she’s got a little group of people.
Didn’t she harvest? I heard she ballot harvested, didn’t she? So where is our Justice Department? Everybody’s telling me stories, have a great writer in Minnesota. And he writes stories about her volumes and nothing ever happens to her. Ilhan Omar, she’s harvesting ballots. It’s illegal, right? They have a story. So where the hell? Why aren’t they looking at her?
If I did that, they’d be looking at me. They’d be looking at anybody here to disgrace. Honestly, it’s a disgrace. And AOC, right? AOC, didn’t she steal $2 million out of her campaign? Didn’t AOC steal $2 million out of her campaign? So why aren’t they looking at her? Why aren’t they looking at her, Justice Department, the Justice Department, they should be looking at. She stole $2 million out of her campaign, AOC plus three, right? It’s unbelievable.
This election is a choice between the Biden depression, because you will have a depression. He’s going to raise your taxes. He’s going to put regulations back in. All of those plants that moved in, they’re going to close up and say, “We’re going back to Japan. These people are crazy,” right? Or you can have the greatest economic boom in the history of our country. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown, he wants to lock it down and a safe vaccine and you do it without the vaccine too. But the vaccine is going to make it quicker. It’s coming in a matter of weeks, it’s going to be distributed immediately. We’re going to start with the seniors, but it’s going to go very, very quickly, very, very quickly. It’s going to be really fantastic. It’s going to be, I think you’ll see something that’s going to be absolutely amazing.
And thanks to our groundbreaking therapies, here I am, therapy. No, I don’t know if it had any impact, but I sure as hell felt good the next morning. I like to say no, it’s because I’m in perfect physical health. I’m a perfect physical specimen and I’m very, very young. I feel young. I didn’t need therapy, but I said, “Give it to me anyway, just in case.” And we’ve already reduced the fatality rate by 85%. Think of that.
The Biden Plan is to imprison you in your home. But that’s what you’re going through right now with this governor. This governor, I got to tell you, your governor, your governor is not doing a good job. She is not doing a good job. I mean, think of it. Your state, we have other states, they’re open. Florida, look at Florida. Look at Texas. Look at Arizona, the great job they’ve done there. They had a spike and they wiped, they focused on the elderly and this and that, all the things, and they’re open and they’re doing great. Your state is blocked down at it’s your governor. You know what’s going to happen? On November 4th, she’s going to announce, we’re going to open up the state.
See, she thought that the numbers and she, and by the way, North Carolina, right? And let’s see, Pennsylvania is shut down. It’s shut down, locked down. It’s all locked down. On the fourth, which one? Yeah. Well, New York, absolutely. New York’s become a ghost town, sister. What they’ve done, what Cuomo has done to New York is unbelievable. It’s terrible. It’s terrible. What they’ve done in New York, and you take a look at certain things. I mean, and then with crime, take a look at Portland. We want to go into Portland so badly. Our guys would solve the Portland problem in about 12 minutes, right? But we have to be asked because we play nice nowadays. We have to be asked by the governor. We keep asking, “You want us to go in yet?” No sir, let a few more stores burn down. That’s Antifa, that’s anarchists.
And you know what? They’re easy. They’re so easy. They’re so easy. Look at what happened to Chicago. Do you know, we’re talking about all Democrat run cities, all run by the left or the radical left. And these are the problem areas. The Republican cities, it’s fact, they’re all doing great. We’re doing great, the Republican cities. That’s why you can’t have a radical left and Joe’s not really radical left. He’s shot, it doesn’t matter. He’s shot. Let’s face it. I mean, let’s face it.
Oh, by the way, those slips, those are the easy ones. We didn’t want to go any worse. They’re much worse than that. They’re actually, they’re so bad that they’re not even funny. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings for you, no Thanksgivings, no Easters, no Christmases, no Fourth of Julys and no future. Other than that, I think he’s doing quite a good job, right? Under Biden’s lock down, you will be living in a prison state. That’s what it is. They want to lock it down. Let’s lock our country down for a couple of years and let it go away. And by the way, those are the people that do the worst. They’re the ones doing the worst. Europe imposed draconian lockdowns and cases were surging and deaths were surging. But think of it, draconian. Now they have to do it all over again. What the hell are they doing? I think I’m going to go over and explain it to them. But they’re locking down parts of Europe again.
By the way, when you think about it though, in all fairness, look what China has done to the world. Okay? No, no, look, I made a great trade deal with them. They ordered, two weeks ago, they ordered the largest order of corn, the largest order of soybeans, the largest order of beef ever in the history of our country. You know what? It doesn’t matter to me anymore. It’s almost like, it doesn’t matter to me anymore. And obviously they did the big order. It was the biggest order ever. So the farmers love Trump. They should love Trump, with what I did with ethanol.
And a great poll just came out in Iowa. You saw that right? De Moines Register. Trump is winning by a lot. I’ve been great. And I got China to give the farmers $28 billion, because China targeted the farm, and all of that stuff. But look at what China has done to the world. Forget us. It’s us and Europe and the world. When you see Europe, is draconian shutdowns, and they’re shutting and they’re surging. This is all, it all came out of China and they could have stopped it. They stopped it from going to the rest of China. If they stopped it at the Wuhan province, they stopped it, but it came to us and it came to Europe and it went to, 188 countries are suffering. I mean, look at what China, just think of it.
Look at what China has done to the world. Look at you with the masks and everything else. Look at what, today you should wear them anyway, probably. But seriously. Look at what China, look at what China has done to the world and we’re not forgetting it. We’re not forgetting it. And the reason they ordered the corn and the reason, you know why? Because they now figured out, we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
And if Biden ever won, China will own the United States of America. Because he has no clue. He’s not a smart person. And in prime time, he wasn’t a smart person. He was always known as a dummy. He was always known as a dummy and that was 20, 25 years ago. And now he’s a dummy and a half. Biden will trap you in a dark winter. Remember during the debate, it will be a dark winter. Oh, how inspiring, how wonderful. Harry, let’s watch the debate tonight. I want to be inspired by the person running against President Trump. This will be a dark winter. Oh great. That’s wonderful. Harry let’s vote. Let’s vote for Trump, please. I mean, we had the greatest economy in the history of the world. We were beating everybody. China was, we were going like a rocket ship up from China. If you read your books over the last, if you were into this world, for 10 years, they said, 2019, China will eclipse the United States as the number one biggest economy in the world. I was going like this. But then we got hit with the plague from China. We then got hit with the plague, but now-
… From China. We then got hit with the plague. But now, when you see the number that was released on Thursday, you say, “Wow, Trump was right.” And that number could only be… I mean, whoever thought of that? 33%, 33.1% increase. It beat the number? You know, second place was 1952, and the number was less than half. So, we got it going, but you know what? We’ve gone through a lot. We’ve gone through a lot. The whole world has gone through a lot. For what? For what? Why have we done it?
[inaudible 00:00:36].
So, I’m delivering the great American comeback, and we’re not having any lockdowns, okay? That, I can tell you. There’s no lockdowns. Joining us today, your congressional candidate, Lisa McClain. Where’s Lisa? Where’s Lisa. I heard you’re doing well. Do well. Are you cold enough? No, you’re just fine. Thank you. Good luck. And Michigan GOP chairwoman, who’s doing a fantastic job, Laura Cox. Laura? How’s it going, Laura? Good? We’re going to win? I think so. I hear we’re going to win. And Michigan GOP co-chair, Terry Bowman. Terry? Thank you. Thank you, Terry. Good job. We could have picked a little better day.
For 47 years, Joe Biden viciously attacked African Americans. We know that. He shipped away your jobs, decimated the black middle-class, and flooded your cities with foreign labor, gangs, and drugs. He opened and he openly called… And I think everyone knows this. He openly called young black men “super predators.” In 1994, the Crime Bill, he devastated black families in places like Philadelphia, Atlanta, Milwaukee, Detroit. I reversed that injustice with a landmark criminal justice reform. And I’ll tell you, nobody else could have gotten it but me. We had a lot of help. Nobody else could have gotten… Obama never even tried. Nobody tried. Biden said that if black Americans don’t vote for him, you ain’t black, which is a famous, famous thing. But that’s not nearly as bad as other things he did. So, I have a message for every African-American voter in Michigan and across America. Tuesday is your chance to show Joe… And you know that, right? Tuesday is our big deal as a country. Show Joe Biden and the Democrat party what you think of their decades of betrayal and abuse.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Tuesday is your chance to show Joe Biden what you think of his decision to mistreat abuse and wrongly imprison So many African-Americans, and that’s what he did. That Crime Bill was a disgrace, and you know that’s what’s happening in Florida? So, we’re doing well with African-American… We’re doing very well, but a lot of them just aren’t showing up because they don’t want to vote for this guy. Typically, they vote Democrat. It’s changing a lot. It’s changing really fast.
And by the way, John James is a very good guy. I hope you’re going to be voting for him. John James, a very good guy. And he’s running against the guy… Nobody even knows who he is, Peters. I was there three years. I said, “Who’s Peters?” “Oh, he’s a Senator. He’s a Senator from Michigan.” Nobody knows who Peters is. He does nothing. He’s a puppet for Schumer. No, you should vote John James. He’s a great young guy. The great young man, West Point, a great military background, did well in business, and he wants to do this, and he’s doing us a favor. I think he could be a star. And I hope Michigan goes for John James.
To every black American, I’m asking you for your vote. I’m asking you to send a message to the corrupt Democrat establishment, that it is corrupt. We welcome you to the Republican party. By the way, it happens to be the party of the late, great Abraham Lincoln, right? Can’t do better than that. Under our platinum plan, you heard about that, we’ll create three million new jobs for black Americans, increase access to capital, and deliver school choice to every family [inaudible 00:55:50]. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability, which is incredible for our great veterans. We had a 91% approval factor rating the other day from the veterans, highest ever.
We killed the leader of ISIS. You that who that is? Al-Baghdadi. They’ve been looking for him for long time. We took out the mass murder of US troops, and many other troops, and many other people, Soleimani is dead also. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years, they worked on that. I got it done in two hours. And instead of endless war in the Middle East, peace is breaking out. Countries are lined up. They’re all lined up. We’re signing them one by one. Biden will plunge America-
[inaudible 00:57:06].
What?
[inaudible 00:57:08].
Oh. That’s very good. Let me see that. Good. Thank you. Thank you, sweetheart. Thank you. Biden will plunge America and the world into one ridiculous war after another. He thinks he’s a tough guy. Remember what he said a year ago? “I’d like to take him behind the bar.” You know what? Boom. I didn’t even have to close. I just, ding, he’s gone. He’s a tough guy, right? With his sunglasses. His new deal is his sunglasses. His new deal are those sunglasses. He was very agitated, right? See him just [inaudible 00:57:49]. And then, you’d have two cars honks. Honk, honk. We have more in the 10 feet of the front row than he had yesterday. And I hate to say it, Obama doesn’t draw any better. They went as a two-some, and they had less people.
A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America… It’s getting warmer now. Do you notice? Let’s stay here longer. I don’t want to… I came here for the worst… Now, it’s getting good, and I’m supposed to leave. I’m not leaving. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China. That’s already happening. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assault on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.
We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. January 1st it starts. It’s going to be incredible. Lower drug prices even more. We’re going favored nations. You’ll get them down 70%, 80%, and 90%. We go from the highest to the lowest in the world. Protect social security and Medicare, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first station to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, ” In God, we trust.”
In God, we trust.
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan. You didn’t see me leave, did you? I’m lucky. You better get out there and vote.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you very much.
We love you.
I love you too. I do. Two days from now, you have the power, with your vote, to save the American dream, to save our country from what could happen to it. You look at Venezuela, you look at so many other countries. 20 years ago, Venezuela was a strong country. It was one of the richest countries. Today, they have no water. They have no food. They have no medicine. They have nothing. This is the same ideology that you’re seeing, trying to come in. We can’t let it happen. This country, and I’ve said it many times, will never be a socialist country. This will never be.
But you have to go out and vote on November 3rd. We must finish the job. Drain the swamp. The swamp is deeper, and stronger, and more vicious than ever, but we’ve done a hell of a job, and they cannot believe that we’re in this position. We’re now leading. Look, we’re leading in Florida. We’re leading in Georgia. We’re leading… Forget Texas. We’re leading. So, how about Texas? You go to Texas. This guy says, “Yeah, we’re against oil.” Right? “We’re against God. And we’re against guns.” We’re going to take away your guns. So, now, we’re in Texas. You can’t have any more oil, no more oil wells. Let’s take all the oil wells away. So, no oil, no God, no guns. And then they say, “It’s a very close race in Texas.” I don’t think so.
They did that four years ago, and I won in a landslide, right? They said, “Texas is too close to call.” The doors close. Donald Trump has won Texas. What the hell happened? They said it with Utah. Remember? They said the guy came in, he came, this character. Nobody ever heard of him. He was supposed to be great. And they kept talking about him. And then, I won by, what, 22 points or something. In fact, crazy Hillary, crooked Hillary came and… Here we go. Watch. Here we go. They always blame me. Whenever that chant starts. All I do is I mention her name.
Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
I didn’t do anything. Well, they said, with your governor, every time I mentioned her name, they say the same thing. And they say, “He is inciting.” I’m inciting. On Tuesday, Michigan is going to make history once again. You made history. And by the way, so I came here a lot, and we ended up winning it. It hadn’t been won for many, many years by a Republican. Are you happy with your choice? All right?
Yeah.
All those plants that you have opened and opening, by the way, and you have plenty coming too. You wouldn’t have any of them if I weren’t your president. I can tell you that, and you have plenty more coming. For generations, America’s destiny was made, forged in one in places like Midland, Makena, Lansing, and Grand Rapids. Grand Rapids, that was where I made my last speech, right? I made my last speech. 32,000 people showed up at one o’clock in the morning. And I said, “We’re not losing.” We had a crowd. You wouldn’t believe it. One o’clock in the morning. It was now Election Day because it had gone over. One o’clock, 32,000 people, Grand Rapids. I’ll never forget it. And I said, “This doesn’t feel like I’m coming in second place.” And guess what? We didn’t.
Battle Creek and Macomb County. Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
Is yet to come.
That’s true. That’s true. Proud citizens like you helped build this country. And together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
Winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again. Our military, our military, so powerful. We have made America wealthy again. Look at what’s happening. 401ks are doing very well. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Make American great again.
Thank you very much, Michigan. Thank you. Look, it’s warm out here now.
(singing) (silence)
Wow. This is a big crowd. This is a very big crowd. Look at all those cameras over there. Can you show the crowd? Can you show this crowd? They never talk about a crowd. And in reverse, they never talk about Sleepy Joe’s crowd either. It’s about 12 people just showed up. 12. Look at this crowd. Maybe you could take those cameras to just show over there and over there. This is great. Hello, Pennsylvania. Hello, Pennsylvania. We love Pennsylvania. Great education. And also, hello, Reading. We know it well. We know it well. Three days from now, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and we are going to win four more great years in the White House.
I will tell you they’re getting a little nervous back there, the Fake News, because Florida is looking very strong. And these are not suppression polls. These are voters they’re coming in. Florida is looking very good. North Carolina is looking very good. Ohio is looking beyond good. Ohio. You never hear, “You can’t win unless you win the great state of Ohio.” Did you ever hear that? Well, Ohio is looking real good. They’re all looking good. You know what’s looking good? Pennsylvania is looking good. Real good. That great red wave is going to be very beautiful to watch. We’re looking good. And if we win Pennsylvania, it’s over. It’s over. But be careful. You’ve got big tech. You have the Democrats and they play dirty. You have the RINOs. The RINOs are not good people. You’ve got them all.
But we’re here and you have your Second Amendment. You have your tax cuts. You have your regulation cuts. You have your fracking. You have your fracking. How about Joe? He goes for a year, “There will be no fracking. I tell you, there will be no fracking.” He comes to Pennsylvania, listen, we have a million jobs for fracking. We like $2 gasoline. It’s nice, isn’t it? We’ve got a lot of things. “Well, in that case, let me just change my …” And he never even gets asked about it by the fake news. Can you believe it? With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful term, “Made in the U.S.A.” And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see it’s already going. You saw what happened. You saw those numbers come out. You have to look very closely.
A man got on television yesterday and said, “This is probably the greatest economic day in the history of our country,” and the papers barely even put it in. It’s called suppression, suppression. And Joe Biden will shut down your economy. Well, you’re already shut down in Pennsylvania. Hey Governor, you’ve got to open up. You’ve got to open up the state, Governor. You’ve to open it up. And don’t cheat in the ballots, Governor. Don’t cheat. Don’t cheat. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. The only way we can lose this state and the numbers are in, you see what’s going on, somebody’s going to play games. And they just got an extension. What’s the extension all about? Wouldn’t you like to hear, “November 3rd, we win. We lose. We win. We lose. Whatever.” November 3rd, now you have more time, more time. What’s going on? That was a very disappointing opinion, but I’ve had many disappointing opinions from the Supreme Court. I will tell you. Many, many disappointing opinions from the Supreme Court. They talk about we control the Supreme Court. We don’t control the Supreme Court. That was a terrible decision.
Joe Biden will shut down your economy, wipe out your factories, and shut down your state. Ship your jobs to China. Raise your taxes $4 trillion. The biggest tax increase in the history of our country. And I gave you the biggest tax cut in the history of it. He’ll eliminate your private healthcare. 180 million people have the best healthcare. They work so hard and they negotiated with many great companies and have the best healthcare. They want to knock it out. They want you to live on socialized medicine. I don’t think you’ll be too happy. “Darling, I have a call.” “Oh. Go to the hospital room.” You’ll wait in line for about four days. That’ll be nicer, right? And send your state into a deep and catastrophic depression.
And if you look at the stock market, we’ve done great. The only headwind in the stock market, it’s an election, things can happen. We’re doing great. Much better than anyone understands. They’re starting to get very depressed. You talk about a depression. They’re having a hard time. They’re having a hard time with it. But you know what? There’s a headwind. Do you know what the headwind is? That there’s a possibility if Biden wins you’re going to have a stock market collapse the likes of which you’ve never had. You will have a collapse. So that’s our headwind. If we win, if we win on Tuesday, or thank you very much, Supreme Court shortly thereafter, if we win, let me tell you, if we win, you’re going to see a stock market that’s going to go like a rocket ship. 401ks, your 401Ks.
Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years!
This is a very enthusiastic group, isn’t it? This is great. Wow. This doesn’t seem like someone who’s going to come in second, do you agree? I don’t think so. Did you see Biden and Obama before, they made a thing? Honk, honk. Honk. Honk, honk. And actually most of them are our supporters trying to cause a little havoc, but that’s all right. We don’t want that. Biden has vowed to abolish the entire U.S. oil industry. No more fracking, no mining, no heating, no clean coal, and gas prices going up at $5, 6$, and $7 a gallon. So when you pull in with your car, you say, “Darling, I think we’re going to sell this beautiful SUV. Let’s get a compact.” Do you remember the compacts? “The gas is too expensive. What has this guy Biden done?” And the bad part is that Biden doesn’t have a clue. He’s gonzo. We all know it. They just don’t want to say it.
Biden’s plan, I don’t think he likes me too much, is an economic death sentence for this great commonwealth. It’s a death sentence. He’ll eradicate your economy. Kamala Harris. Did you ever hear of Kamala? You have to pronounce it Kamala. She makes Bernie Sanders look like a strict conservative. Do you know that? Bernie is a conservative member compared to her. I mean, how that choice was made. And did our great Vice President win that debate easily? That was a big one. Mike is doing a great job. The most liberal Senator even sponsored the Green New Deal, $100 trillion. It started off at 100 trillion then 106. Now they have it down to six trillion. No, it’s not six trillion. And by the way, if it was, you couldn’t afford it. But you can afford 100.
A vote for Biden and Harris is a vote to ban, and you know this, ban fracking, ban mining, close up your individual plants. They’ve got plants all over the place. I grew up here. They have plants all over. When I say grew up, let me be exact, during college, because they’ll say, “He misrepresented. He said he grew up.” But Biden represents it. “This is my home.” This is not his home. They left. They abandoned you. It wasn’t his fault. He was nine years old or something. It was not his fault. But it’s not like he’s a big Pennsylvania guy. No, he’s a Delaware guy. And Delaware is a good place. In fact, it’s really good. He likes it so much he never leaves. He never leaves. He made the mistake. He came to Pennsylvania three days ago, because I was here. I was doing three of them. Three in Pennsylvania. Hey, I’m devoting a lot of my percentage of time to Pennsylvania. What do you think? I must like you.
No, we win Pennsylvania. We’re going to win Florida. If we win Pennsylvania, it’s over. Let’s do it. I felt very badly, I felt guilty, because if you remember four years ago, we were at 98% of the vote. If I lost every single vote, there were X number of votes left, if I lost every single vote, every vote, take them all, I still win. They refused to call it. They refused. They wouldn’t call it. I said, “Wait a minute. They have to call it.” Because I was at 98, not 99, I was at 98. It stood there for an hour and a half. And I kept saying, “That’d be nice, Pennsylvania. That’d be nice.” They refused. And then they said, ” Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin.” And then they said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan.” And we won. And then much later, they just refused to give you the credit. So let’s turn it around on them, okay? They didn’t treat you.
I kept waiting. I said, “Look at Pennsylvania. Why aren’t they going to call it? Why?” They waited for hours and hours. I said, “I’ll concede every vote. I’ll concede every one and we win.” They wouldn’t do that. But we won it, and we won it pretty easily. I think we want it pretty easily. And what I’ve done from the time we won and what I’ve done since then, what we’ve done for this state has been incredible, or to be perfectly accurate. For this commonwealth. But what we’ve done for Pennsylvania has been incredible. You had the best year you’ve ever had last year and you’re heading to the best year you’ve ever had period, and it’s going to be this coming year. Biden would completely destroy Pennsylvania. A vote for me is a vote to remain energy independent. Do you believe it? We can say that. Did you ever think you’re going to hear those beautiful words? We’re energy independent.
Our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. That was what was announced yesterday. The only problem is, a very, very brilliant gentleman called me up. Not a nice man at all. In fact, he’s ruthless and vicious. I love that guy with the beard back there. He goes to a number. Thank you. He’s so distinguished. He’s so distinguished. I see him at so many rallies. I appreciate it. I think he’s great. He’s going, “Four more years.” Yeah. He’s great. But you know what? He got up and he said, very smart, very successful guy, he said, “This could be the biggest announcement in 50 years. 33.1% GDP.” That’s growth. He said it broke the record. It’s the number one in history, of the history of our country.
… it broke the record, it’s the number one in history, in the history of our country, and probably the history of any country, if you want to know the truth. But 33.1% which is far greater than people were anticipating, anybody. So what happens is that this is the biggest announcement but you watch, they won’t give you any credit, they’ll try not to mention. It’s true, the press is playing it down so much. Just like for different reasons they refuse to talk, they refuse to talk about where’s Hunter. They refuse to talk about the corruption in Biden’s family. We’ve learned more about the fake news, but this is no longer fake news, this is now corrupt news. This is now corrupt news. We’ve learned a lot. But we had the greatest number we’ve ever had.
I thought I heard that from over there. See, I don’t participate in this because look at all the cameras back there, look at them all. You know what they’re going to do? “He’s trying to incite them.” No, I don’t have to incite them, they’re like intelligent people, they know. They know that when you get thrown out of the military and you have no job for a long time, and then your father becomes Vice President, and then you get $183,000, right? $183,000 to sit on a board, probably never went to a board meeting, and supposedly 3 million upfront. And then the mayor of Moscow’s wife gives you a check for 3.5 million, and then… And then, you go in Air Force Two and you go to a very nice place known as China, that should have never, ever done what they did. They should have never done. We just signed a great trade deal and the ink wasn’t dry, and the plague came in. They should have, they could have stopped it.
But they go to China, father and son goes to China, and he walks out with $1.5 billion to manage, which is millions of dollars a year. And then he goes for the big play, 10 million a year, you saw that one? He wants 10 million a year. This is a guy didn’t have a job a year before. Goes to China, “We want 10 million a year for introductory,” in other words, he’ll introduce people to his father. And then you see his father, the big guy, the big guy, they call him, he’s not a big guy. He’s not a big guy… He’s not a big guy. No.
Do you remember like a year ago, year and a half ago, he said, “I’d like to take him to the back of the barn…” A slight slap. You don’t have to close… you didn’t close your fist. Now they said, “He’s inciting violence.” No, no. But when Biden… I thought it was a terrible… Remember that he actually like, “I want to take him to the back of the barn.” They didn’t say the thing. If I said that, they’d say this is a terrible human being, right? It’s all right.
You know what? In the meantime we have the White House, right? We have the White House. We have the presidency. We have fracking. We have energy. We have manufacturing that they totally gave up. Remember, you’d need a magic wand. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs, there’s never been that many jobs produced in that short a period of time. While foreign nations are in a free fall, and they are, unfortunately, I feel badly for them, but they are. We are creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse. We are going to be more powerful than ever before. We had to stop. We had to close. We saved 2 million lives. Remember they, they don’t want to ever talk about that. The model was 2.2 million. That’s what they said. We saved 2 million lives, we closed it up. How would you like to be, ma’am, sitting there, we have the greatest economy of the history of this country, in the history of the world.
We were doing so much better than China, I was throwing tariffs on them, they were paying us billion dollars. I gave $28 billion to farmers because they were targeted by China. Iowa, Nebraska, they’ll remember, they’ll remember. I gave them 28 billion with a B, farmers, farms, and ranchers because they were targeted by China because they thought China thought they could use the farmers to get the deal that they want because I said, “I’m not going to let you rip off the United States, you’ve done it long enough, for years and years.” And I’m not just talking about Obama. I’m talking about other presidents too, they allowed this to happen. They allowed this to happen. So we gave our farmers 28 billion, that’s not… all from China. I said, “Please write a letter, say thank you very much, President Xi.” A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under… Think of that. And that’s during, we’re rounding the turn, they hate when I say it. You know we’re coming up with the vaccines, the therapeutics are incredible. Here I am, I mean, you know. I’m sure I would have been here without the therapeutic because as you can see I’m in perfect physical shape and I’m extremely young. So I’m young and I’m a perfect physical specimen… No, so I’m sure I could have beat it without… But something happened when I took that sucker and it was gone. It was gone. I woke up the next morning and I ripped off my shirt. I said, “Doctor, let me the hell out of here.”
And I was campaigning like… very… Oh, the other side, were they happy? Oh, were they happy? But you know what? When you’re President of the United States, you can’t lock yourself into a basement at the White House. Got to be President and meet people, right? I can’t lock myself into the basement, and they have a very good basement, I can’t lock myself into a beautiful bedroom and stay there for a year and a half. The President of the United States is locked in the most magnificent bedroom on the third floor of the White House because we have a pandemic and he’s afraid to go out, he’s your President. No, no, you got to go out.
And the doctor came up to me. Great doctors. One thing if you’re President you get good doctors, that’s the one thing I can tell, and you get plenty of them too, they got more doctors. But they came up, “Sir, you’re positive, you just tested positive.” I said, “Doctor, tell me something. For what?” “Sir, you have the China plague.” He didn’t say that, he said, “COVID, sir.” COVID, you know it’s got about 24 different names, most of them should start with the word China because that’s where it came from. They have a word corona, right? The coronavirus. Well, I say what is this a place in Italy? Sounds like an island in Italy. Corona. No, I don’t want it, it’s the China, it’s the China virus, that’s what it is.
But he said, “Sir, you just tested positive for COVID.” I said, “Ugh, that’s great. Wait a minute, I got about four campaign stops to make in the next couple of days because we got to win this, this is the most important election in the history of our country.” And then our great First Lady tested positive. Well, at least those rumors that we don’t live together turned out to be false. She lives in a house someplace in Virginia. No. No. She lives with me and she tested… I said, “That’s the only good thing about her testing positive because…” But she’s strong and knocked it out. But then they said, you know that they said, “Sir, Barron,” now, Barron’s my 14-year old boy who’s very tall and strong, he’s very strong, all right? And Barron, they said, “Sir, Baron tested positive.” I said, “Huh, that’s not good.” About 12 minutes later, I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Sir, he’s shed it, no problem, he’s fine.” Get back to school, Governor, tell them they have to get back to school. Got to get back to school. Those young kids they have that strong, we feel strong, they have that very strong immune system. “How is he?” “He’s 100%.” “Barron, was it bad?” “I don’t think I had anything wrong, Dad.” That’s one of those things, right? That’s the way it is. They’re young and they’re strong and their immune system is good and they should go back to school immediately. Sleepy Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars in countries that most of you have never even heard of before. They’re all coming back to soldiers are coming back, you know that. 19 years. So now 19 years and they were policemen, they policed areas, but it’s ridiculous what they were doing in this country. Ridiculous. Biden is a Washington vulture who decimated your steel mills, annihilated your coal jobs, clean coal, and supported every disaster sellout trade deal for over half a century. I mean, I know it’s the reason why I’m President.
The real thing that bothered me more than anything else, I thought the wars were crazy. I thought so much was bad, but I saw these trade deals we were making with countries, both ally, and foe, and our allies in many ways treated us worse than the foe, okay. We were treated horribly on trade and we were treated horribly on the military. We had to pay for their military. By the way, those days have ended very substantially you know. Very, very substantially.
Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made, maybe the worst, and China’s entry into the world trade organization. That’s where China was flat-lined for years and years and then they went up like a rocket ship. You know they’re considered a developing nation. As a developing nation, they get a much better deal than we do. I said, “China is not a developing nation. Or you can let them be, then we’re a developing nation also.” When you think of it, we are a developing nation. And then we won $7.5 billion recently, we hadn’t won anything because the judges within the world trade, the judges treated us with disrespect. But with me, they’re respected because I’ll say, “We’ll pull the hell out of there. We’ll pull out.” And we won 7.5 billion, all of a sudden we’re winning cases.
I wish our Supreme Court treated us as well, frankly. That was some decision that was made, right? Let’s not, let’s not listen to the decision, this most important election in the history of our country, November 3rd. Let’s not wait November 3rd, let’s extend the date. Let’s give people more time to put in ballots, right? Why can’t they put their ballots in earlier so you have plenty of time, and so we can have a decision on November 3rd, the evening of November 3rd? And you know what’s going to happen? Especially with Pennsylvania, man was on television yesterday, “We allow five points for cheating,” he said in Pennsylvania, right? Think of that. One of the best pollsters in the country? The one who got it right four years ago. He said, “Trump’s going to win Pennsylvania but you have to allow five points for cheating.” You know when the cheating is going to take place? From the 3rd to whatever the date is that they gave. No, that’s very disappointing. That was a very political decision, I have to say, they have not treated me.
Pennsylvania lost half of its manufacturing jobs to these calamities of Sleepy Joe Biden. How do you like his new sunglasses? You like them? That’s so you don’t see the bad surgery on the eyes. No, they’re terrible, those… They got to get a little… If you going to use that kind, what are they? Aviation, right? He’s got to go at least one or two sizes larger that don’t look like… I don’t like it. I don’t know, he’s got the silver deal going, the whole deal. And he’s very angry, right? You ever notice? You know what, the word is a… It’s agitated. You know why he’s agitated, right? Because he’s got a problem. “We’ve got to…” And you just hope he can keep it going, but it’s not going to go much longer. That’s why crazy Nancy was trying to get the 25th amendment so if he ever got in, we’d get him out.
And then you have Kamala, that should never be your first woman president. But based on the numbers, the way I look at them, in Pennsylvania I don’t think we’re going to have to worry about it too much, okay? And Florida and Ohio and lots of others. North Carolina is looking pretty good, did you see that? And this is no longer the fake suppression polls. You know we had a thing, Wisconsin is great and we won it last time, and we had a poll come out, I’m up one, then I’m down one, then I’m up one, then I’m even, you know what this is crazy stuff. But it’s, you know, it’s within this area.
I think we doing much better than that, you know. I think, I think we’re way ahead. You know, I mean, I don’t know if I should be happy or sad, people say, “I don’t want to talk to you about it.” Then they go vote for Trump you know and we end up winning by a lot. But that’s what happened last time. They thought I was going to lose because everyone walking out the exit polls, they’d walk out. “Who are you voting for?” “None of your business.” Everybody that said, “None of your business,” they were Trump voters.
Remember at five o’clock in the afternoon, they said, “Trump lost.” Well, they forgot to say, you know, they had the largest numbers of it’s called something else, but I’m trying to be nice because there’s so many young people here. It’s not “none of your business”, it’s a much better word. It’s two words that they say. But all those votes were votes for me. So they don’t count them. So they said, “Oh, it looks like it’s going to be a rough time for Trump.” And they were happy as hell. And then the votes came in. It was, that was a brutal evening for a lot of anchors that were crying. “I don’t know how this could have happened. Yes, I’m an impartial anchor. I’m an impartial, I go, how did this happen?” The tears are…
At every turn, Biden twisted his knife into the backs of Pennsylvania workers. While Biden was giving China your jobs, his family was raking in millions of dollars from China, millions and millions of dollars. If Biden wins, China wins. If Biden wins, China will own the US. Just remember that. And with me, it went just the opposite. I will tell you one thing, I can name many countries that would like me to lose. You know they said that Germany, that in Germany, and I have a heritage with Germany, I mean they should like me, but they like Obama much better than they should like Obama. There’s no way they can like me. I said, “Pay up.” They don’t pay their, they’re delinquent in NATO. They owe us billions and billions of dollars. Obama never said, “Pay up.” I said, “You got to pay up otherwise we have to take our troops out.” And then I hear that they like him better, well they should. You know what? If they ever like me better, I’m not doing my job, okay?
When we win, when America wins so we’re going to have winning like you’ve never seen before. In 2016 Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first. Is that okay, Pennsylvania? And you don’t have to take my word for it because on Biden’s record of economic treachery, and I only do this for places I like a lot. Thank you. They going to get it started. Is there any [crosstalk 00:34:37]-
I have never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
Show the tape, put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee you we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more. No, no fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
What about say stopping fracking? Stopping pipeline infrastructure and-
Yes.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question-
Would he close down [crosstalk 00:35:25]-
… it falls, it falls [crosstalk 00:35:27]-
I have a transition from their [inaudible 00:35:29], yes.
Oh, that’s a big statement [crosstalk 00:35:31]-
I would transition. That is a big statement.
In terms of business that’s the biggest statement.
Okay.
Because basically [crosstalk 00:00:35:36]-
We have one final question. Mr. President-
… what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that, Texas? Will you remember that, Pennsylvania?
Okay.
You know we have to come together that’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote! Vote! Visit iowa.com/ohio. God bless you.
Ah, can some-
God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe, by the way, it’s not a real website and, Joe, you’re running for President, not Senator, and by the way, that Senator, the Mormon guy, is Mitt Romney, not some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00 AM, well, disaster ensues. Here’s a quick reminder.
… Tomorrow’s super… Thursday and I want to thank you all. I tell you what I’m rushing ahead, aren’t I? We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created by… You know the thing. Do you agree with me, go to Joe 3030. We choose truth over facts. Play the radio. Make sure that television… excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night. Make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids who are just as bright and just as talented white kids. Donald Trump does pose an extra strength for this… It’s not hypothetical.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff. And I am beginning… Well, I’m more than a little worried that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading. He’s been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the President of the United States of America, that would be the toughest job in the world and a times, Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for President, or what state he’s in, or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that if elected that Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
What kind of country we’re going to be? Four more years of Georgia, Georgia… going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be, we’re going to be in a different world.
Trick or treat
Whoa, do we love you.
Spooky, spooky, spooky, creepy. Creepy Uncle Joe.
Ah, it’s funny. It’s Joe.
Come on, man, candy’s for the kids.
Well, maybe he forgot.
Wait a minute, you look familiar. Who are you?
Are we going to let her get away with this?
She took everything.
Thank you, thank you. Well, that was quite interesting watching. A little truth to that. Nah, nah, can’t… we can’t do that to our country. We can’t do that to our country. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician is because I’m not a politician. And if I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for the people of this country.
One of the most important issues of this election is law and order. You know very well in Pennsylvania what’s going on. Joe Biden and his party have spent the entire year inciting violence and hatred against our great police officers. And remember this, it’s all Democrat-run cities, radical left Democrats, Democrats. You look at what’s going on, all Democrat-run cities. Republicans have no problems, our cities are doing great, but it’s all Democrats. This week the City of Philadelphia, I know it well, was ransacked by violent mobs and Biden supporters. More than 50 great police officers were injured and they weren’t allowed to do their job. They were standing… You have great police. I know the police departments, everybody’s endorsement. Remember the debate. I said, “Name one law enforcement agency or establishment, Joe, that endorsed you.” He couldn’t name one. Couldn’t name one.
Our opponents stand with the rioters, they stand with the anarchists, they stand with the looters. We stand with the heroes of law enforcement, okay? Got to let them do their job. I’m not just running against Sleepy Joe Biden, I’m running against the left-wing media, the big tech giants, these people back here, and the Washington swamp. I’m also running against some rhinos, we still got some of them left, they’re on mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. They just about gone but you don’t want them to come back. The rhinos, the rhinos are worse than the angry, angry sicko Democrats, the ones that have gone off the ledge. But you can save your country by voting in record numbers on Tuesday. You got to get out and vote. Look again, it’s the most important election, you got to get out and vote.
The great red wave we talked about, right? Red wave. And you can send a message that they will never forget. This election is a choice between a Biden depression, that’s what you’re going to have, or a Trump super boom. You’re going to boom. You’re going to boom. We were there. And even now look through all of this, your 401Ks they had a little hiccup because… Look, they think if he had a chance it’s a disaster. You watch, we’re going to win.
First of all, the first call I’m going to get are the people, the leaders in Iran, let’s make a deal. Let’s make a deal. China they’re dying to do something. They all want to talk. I don’t want to talk to them. I said, “We’ve got to get an election over with,” and they have to take the chance. Can you imagine Iran, the worst deal, $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash, and they said, “Let’s wait till after the election.” I said, “I agree with you.”
It’s a choice between a Biden lockdown or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and it’s ending anyway, it’s making the turn anyway, but we have the vaccines are coming and they’re coming soon. They’re coming very, very soon. We’re going to have an incredible economy. Next year. You know last year was the best year that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has ever had. I could almost say it with every state, I could say it with any state, it was the best year. We had it closed it down, we saved all those lives and now we opened it and I said, “Super V,” right? I actually said V. “ell, now I can say it’s a super V. At 33.1 which you won’t read about… we will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. We have our military all set up. They do soldiers, greatest military in the world. We’ve totally rebuilt our military in three and a half years.
The pandemic will quickly be eradicated, and wipe out the China plague. We’ll get rid of it once and for all. We’re going to get rid of it. Look at what’s happening in Europe how bad that is that’s so terrible. And they’d always say, “Look at Europe, look at Europe.” Well, they’re not doing too well. And if you look at our numbers, our numbers are so incredible. And our economy went down much less and it’s come back much, much faster. Biden opposed the China travel ban, he opposed the Europe travel ban. I closed it very early and he said I shouldn’t do it. Think of this, “He shouldn’t do it, he’s xenophobic.” I think he called me a racist too which I don’t like. Look, “He shouldn’t do it, he’s xenophobic. He’s in a xenophobic.” He was saying this two months later. Now he runs he said I should have closed it sooner.
This guy between the fracking and the ban and everything else. And he wants to delay the vaccine and impose a year’s long lockdown. Nope, you got to open up, got to open up. We know the disease. We’re going to have all of the different things, including the therapeutics which I think might be a cure because something happened to me, I’ll tell you what. Something happened. It might be a cure, but the… they call it therapeutics. But what we’ve done and what we’ve done in terms of mortality rates are incredible. And we’re going to go over that. The Biden lockdown will result in the deaths of Americans from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, abuse. I mean, you can’t do this. You got to open them up. The families have to, the families can’t live like this any longer. You can’t live like this, we want to open up our country.
Now, part of the reason they’re doing it, a big part probably is political. They want to keep it closed. New York… What’s going on with my beautiful New York? I left… I left three and a half years ago and what’s happened to New York in terms of crime and all of the problems. It’s like a ghost town. What’s happened to our great New York? Chicago, what’s happened to Chicago? Portland, look at that. We could solve Portland, they’re anarchists. We love the anarchist because we can knock them out in about 20 minutes, okay? All the governor has to do… “Call, Governor, call,” I’ve been saying to her, “Call, Governor, just call.” Speak to them all the time. We’ll come in, we’ll take care of the problem. We were going into Seattle. We informed them we’re going in, we’re just going in. They took over a part of Seattle, can you believe this? They took a… This is the radical left, they took over a part. We said, “We’re going in.” You know what happened? The night before they held up their hands, they said, “We’re leaving now. Thank you very much.” We had no choice.
Biden will imprison. Your people, your families, in your house while letting rioters roam free and loot your streets and loot your store. Under Biden, there will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no Easter, no 4th of July. There will be no future for our country. Other than that, he’s going to do a great job. I guess a total disaster. Everything he’s touched has been bad. He’s a disaster. Biden will trap you in an endless nightmare of deadly lockdowns and lay-offs. He wants to lockdown. You know the virus is coming back a little bit. What slows up our country. No, can’t do that.
We understand that. We understand we have to protect our elderly. We know exactly what to do. I’m delivering the great American comeback. It’s going to be one of the greatest comebacks of all time. And the numbers are far better than we thought. The numbers, you heard the numbers, 33.1. And again, they don’t talk about it. If this were Obama, they would say 33. 1, he’s the greatest president of all, he’s so great. He’s so great he gave us 142 federal judges to fill. If I were in his… If I were a radical left or a liberal and a president left office and gave 142 federal judgeships, including Court of Appeals, for Donald Trump to fill, who has a very different philosophy, you’re no longer a good president, nobody mentions that. But we’re going to have, by the time the end of our first term, just our first term, 300, approximately 300 federal judgeships and three Supreme Court Justices.
And Amy, everybody loves Amy. She just got under the [inaudible 00:12:46]. Just got on. Think of that, three Supreme Court Justices, and think of that. 300. But I say, “Thank you, President Obama, for allowing us to have 142.” Because that… you know, usually when a president leaves zero, their nuggets of gold. People want that, you know, it’s such an important position, nothing much more important. People say it’s the most important thing a president can do. I would say the military maybe, but it’s okay. They say it’s the most important thing. We’re going to have 300. I mean, think of it, it’s never happened before.
You know the job we’ve done, you are so lucky that I’m your President. So lucky. You are so lucky that we took this journey together. This wonderful, this beautiful journey together. You are so lucky. Pennsylvania, you are so lucky, you better get out and vote on Tuesday. Get out and vote.
That’s very nice. That’s very nice though. That’s a chant that nobody’s ever heard politically. That’s really nice, we love you and I love you too, I do.
I had an easy life before I did this, but you know what? I would never change it because we have done more in the first three and a half years than any administration has ever done for our military, for so many different things. But I appreciate. But you know that’s a chant, nobody’s ever heard that chant. Even these characters back there, there’re a lot of them back here. But that’s a chant nobody’s ever heard, we love you, we love you. I mean, two guys are back there, they look like they’re from the UFC, UFC, and they’re crying when they’re saying it. They haven’t cried in 20 years. They haven’t cried since they were a baby and maybe didn’t even cry then, but they were crying. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I do appreciate it.
If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your great family, and freedom to live your life, you must vote Republican. You have to vote Republican.
So we’re joined today by some warriors and I really like them and they’ve been incredible. Congressman Dan Meuser, Dan, thank you, Dan. Great job. And Congressman Lloyd Smucker. My campaign state chairwoman, someone who’s really good, well, let me ask her. How are we doing, Bernie? Where’s Bernie? How are we doing? Our Bernie, great, Bernie Comfort, great job you’re doing. I’d be… Let me just hold that. I’ll let you know about great job within a couple of days. Hopefully, not much longer than that.
And a man who… I know, I tell ya, he’s just… He and I grew up, I like the Yankees, I like the Mets and this guy was some player. Mike Piazza. Mike. Mike, you look good, Mike. They could use you. This guy was great. His father was great. They were… Man, he could hit, he was a natural hitter, he was just a natural-born hitter, and a great catcher, by the way. We forgot that, right? We forgot that he was a great catcher and a great athlete, a great… Thank you, Mike, it’s an honor. Thank you, man.
We have a lot of great champions that are on this campaign. Tremendous champions. Brett Farve was there yesterday. I was in… Yeah. I was in a place called Green Bay, they like him in Green Bay. And we love Mike. Thank you, Mike, very much. What an honor.
For decades our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations and now we’re finally rebuilding our nation. I think it’s… I think it’s time. Biden is a hateful man. You can see it in the way he angrily shouts his speeches. Great agitation. He can never unite us because he’s spent five decades in Washington trying to divide us. For 47 years Joe Biden betrayed black Americans and viciously attacked their communities. In 1994 and that crime bill, that horrible crime bill, he devastated black families, and they know that. And one of the things we’re seeing from other states is he’s not doing very well with African American votes. They don’t like him. I signed landmark criminal justice reform and I announced the platinum plan, which will create 3 million new jobs for black Americans. And deliver school choice for every family in our country. And then he went around in 1994-
And then he went around in 1994 and around that time, and started calling young black people super predators. Right? Super predators. You can’t do that, and they remember that, and that’s why he’s doing terribly with African Americans. He’s doing very badly. He’s trying to figure it out. I could say, “Joe, I can figure it out for you, Joe.” I achieved the most secure border in history. Our opponents want open borders. Open borders. If you don’t have borders, you don’t have a country. By the way, the wall is almost complete. 400 plus miles, it will be complete very soon and it’s made a difference. We have the most secure southern border we’ve ever had by far. To protect our security, I suspended the entry of foreign … and you know what this is all about. You’ve been seeing what’s going on in France lately. It’s been terrible. I called up President Macron and I extended our sympathies and best wishes, but they had terrible terrorist attacks over the last few days, and more than one.
I suspended the entry of foreign refugees from terror afflicted nations. If you don’t mind, I don’t think … Biden has pledged a staggering 700% increase in the manifesto that he agreed to with … I call it the manifesto because that’s what it is, with crazy Bernie Sanders. He’s a crazy guy. Mike, this guy is one of the greatest loses, Bernie Sanders. He loses with Hillary. He goes back to voting. He loses again. Elizabeth “Pocahontas” Warren, all she had to do … no. All she had to do was get out two weeks earlier. He would have won … Bernie would have won everything. Similar ideology, not a good one, but similar. But Bernie goes back and he’s supporting now Joe. I don’t know. He’s a great sport. He’s a great loser.
Mike wouldn’t be doing that. Mike would be ripping people apart, wouldn’t you, Mike? 700% increase. Think of that. He wants a seven … they’ve agreed to it. Not once. They’ve agreed to it with AOC plus 3. You know what that is? AOC plus 3. One of the three is in Ilhan Omar. That’s we’re going to win Minnesota.
700% increase in refugees from those violent terrorists hotspots all over earth, including Syria, Somalia and Yemen. No, thank you. Do I have your approval, Pennsylvania? Do I have your approval? I think so. I think so.
He vowed to terminate our travel bans on jihadist regions. In other words, “Come on in, everybody. Enjoy the United States. We love you very much.” Biden will open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism and I am keeping the terrorists the hell out of our country, If you don’t mind. If you don’t mind. We invested $2.5 trillion in the United States military, the biggest investment ever made. Our military was totally depleted when I took over, right? It was depleted. Our planes were old, our jet fighters. They used to go to the desert, the graveyards, airplane graveyards, to take parts out of old planes and bring them in. Now we have brand new F35 fighter jets and tankers and submarines and missiles and rockets, and our nuclear has been fixed to a level that you wouldn’t believe, and we have the super-duper missiles that go very quickly.
We were very, very … hypersonic, they call them, right? Hypersonic. They go rather quickly, seven times the speed of our fastest missile right now. The best in the world. We saved the Philly shipyard and Biden shut it down. Biden shut it down. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability for our veterans and we just got a 91% approval rating and he’s got a 91% approval rating as a great catcher. He might have higher than that. Hey, you might be 99%. We killed the leader of ISIS, Al-Baghdadi. We took out the mass murder of U.S. troops and many troops all over the world. Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal. “Here’s a $150 billion. Make a short term deal. It’s almost expired.” If I didn’t terminate it, it would have been … it’s getting close to expiring. Short-term deal, basically. Countries, not like you’re leasing a store. It’s a country. Made a short term deal. $150 billion and 1.8 billion in cash. You ever see 1.8 billion in cash?
I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and presidents have wanted to do that for many, many, many decades and they never had the guts to do it. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’d been working on that for 52 years. I did it in two hours. It took two hours. Instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East. You see what’s happening? That coming in? No blood in the sand. Did it the opposite way. I said, “How have they done it?” And I said, “Good. Let’s do it the opposite way.”
[inaudible 00:05:39].
That’s very nice. So I’ve been nominated for … Now I hear it’s four. Nominated. But think of it and not just the Middle East. So we had a case, we’re making trade deals with Kosovo and Serbia. Kosovo, Serbia.. They’ve been killing each other for decades. They fight. That’s what they do. They kill each other, so many years. So we’re doing one deal, another deal, and they come in and tell me they’re doing a deal with Kosovo, deal with Serbia. I said, “Wait a minute. They’ve been killing each other for decades and decades. I don’t want to do the deal. Tell them I’m not doing the deal unless they make peace. They have to come in and make economic peace. They have to make peace. They don’t have to kill each other.” I’m saving lives. You could say, “What does that have to do with us?”
You know how long it took me? About three minutes. I said to my guys, I said, “Tell them I’m not …” They want to make a deal. Everyone wants to do with us. Everyone now, especially, but everyone wants to do with us. So I went to them, I said, “No, tell them they got to stop killing each other. And good people. Good here, good there. Stop killing them.” You know what? Within a short period of time, we made a deal, right? That way we were nominated for a Nobel peace prize. I said, “That one took me about 15 minutes.” We made a deal and the leaders came into the Oval Office and they were hugging and kissing and they was so happy with each other. I said, “isn’t that nice?” So smart. You say, “Hey, we’re making deals. Let’s tell them they got to get along.” And it was great and a lot of people … we saved a lot of lives and you know what? Cost us nothing. It didn’t do anything. We’re saving a lot of good people, lives.
So we got that little … but they won’t give [inaudible 01:01:27]. They won’t give it. They just probably talk. But I hear it’s an extraordinarily left organization, but if they do … Somebody said, “You definitely deserve them,” and that’s true. Obama got one. Remember? He had no idea why. He got elected president, immediately after his election, “We have nominated you for a peace prize,” and it was a massive story. When I got nominated, I got nominated for peace in the Middle Eastern, right? I said to my wife, you heard this story. I said, “Darling, I’m going to come home a little early tonight. I’m going to watch the news. We have big news today. I’m going to get the greatest publicity you’ve ever seen, darling.” She said, “What happened?” I said, “Well, it’s peace in the Middle East. I got a Nobel peace prize nomination. This is going to be really something, darling.” I turned on the fake news.
They talked about a hurricane and they talked about a couple of fires where they should manage their forest much better and you wouldn’t have to … All you have to do manage your fires, you won’t have any fires. Right? Then they talked about a couple of other things and they talked about this and that, and after about 15 minutes, the first 15 minutes, it was a half an hour show, free airways from the government, even though it’s fake news. I don’t know. We have to look at that. Right? But think of it. Look, the cameras are shaking now.
So 15 minutes go by. No mention. Now when Obama got his for no reason, he still doesn’t know why he got it. He’s walking around, “Why did I get it?” No, it was the biggest story. I remember it now. He was nominated. The guy didn’t even do it. He just got to the office. So 15 minutes go by, there’s nothing. It’s a little embarrassing. I have our great First Lady there. I’m trying to show off. Right? Right? You understand that, Mike. It’s a little embarrassing. Now we go into the second 15. She said, “Darling, I don’t think they’re going to mention it,” because they started talking about something for kids, something kids should do in the spring. I said, “I don’t think they’re going to mention it darling.” Then the next day or the next week I got another one and another one but this time we didn’t go back home to watch. Too busy. So it’s one of those things, right? I’ve done more in 47 months, then sleepy Joe Biden has done in 47 years.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream, and remember Abraham Lincoln, the great Abraham Lincoln, was a Republican. Please remember that. Abraham Lincoln, over the last … long period of time, we’ve done a job. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China. It’s already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. Right? We will defend the right to life, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will defend your second amendment. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. That’s what we’re doing. Bring them all in. We will end surprise medical billing, which is a disaster, require price transparency, already signed, and that’s bigger than healthcare. You watch. Already signed. January 1st it goes into effect.
Can you imagine this goes into effect, so hard to get, and we have Biden as a president? They’ll say, “What a job he’s done. What a job he’s done.” And they go to him, “Sir, you’ve done a great job on transparency.” He says, “What is that?” I did it. I said to my people, “You have to start in January 1st?” But because of statutory provisions, et cetera, so it’s January 1st. You remember what I said, price transparency, bigger than healthcare. Wait until you see what I’m talking about. Lower drug prices even more than we already have, but it’s going to be favored nations. We have the highest prices in the world and we now will match the lowest prices of the world. The drug companies hate me. They don’t like me. Big pharma is not a big fan of mine.
They’re spending more money on ads than sleepy Joe. They want me out. They want me out, but … China wants me out, Iran wants me out, Germany wants me at. They all want me out, but here we are, right? Here we are. We will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Remember that. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. That’s where we’re going. NASA, again, is the great space center of the world. It was closed and in disrepair when I took over. Now it’s the hottest place there is to space, and we get all these rich guys, right? We’re getting all these guys, very rich guys. They love sending rockets up. I say, “Go ahead. You can use our property, pay us something.”
So they give us a little rent and they pay and they spend a lot of money and those rockets are good. Elan, Bezos likes rockets. They all like rockets. I don’t know what it is. I don’t know. What about you? Would you like to send a rocket? You made a lot of money, I know. One or two rockets is all you can manage, right?
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust. For years, you had a president to apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the people of Pennsylvania. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your boss. Come on, boss, and get out and vote. You got to get out and vote on Tuesday. Get out and vote. The red wave.
On November 3rd we must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all. It’s a vicious swap. It’s deeper and darker and worse, but we’ve done a hell of a job and we’re still here and we’re doing it and it’s driving them crazy. For generations America’s destiny was made, forged, and won in places like Bethlehem, Bristol, Allentown, Altoona, Scranton, and Redding, all names we all know for a long time. Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again. Look at what’s going on. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Go out and vote. Thank you very much.
Wow, good crowd. This is a hell of a crowd. Thank you. Thank you. Wow.
Four more years, four more years, four more years.
Well, I just want to say hello, Pennsylvania, and hello, Montoursvile. How are you? We love this state. I’ve done a little traveling in this state today you might have heard, but we save the best for last. Right? It’s a great place. I went to school here, went to college here, and it’s a great place.
Three days from now, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and we are going to win four more great years in the White House and, with your vote, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great military, take care of our veterans and nobody’s done it better than we have, work with our police, our police officers, and ensure that more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase “Made in the USA”. It’s been a long time since you heard that kind of stuff.
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country on the assumption you don’t quadruple your taxes. Okay? It’s the only guy I’ve ever seen, his old campaign theme, “We will raise your taxes.” What the hell kind of a campaign? My whole life I’ve seen people campaign. I’ve never heard that one before, but it’s a little bit of a different kind of a campaign, wouldn’t you say?
Sleepy Joe Biden will shut down your economy, ship your jobs to China, where he’s very well taken care of. You never hear it from them. That’s a lot of media. You’ll never hear it from the fake media. Raise your taxes $4 trillion dollars, destroy the suburbs and we’re saving the suburbs. I hope the people of the suburbs know that. I hope the people in the suburbs know that. I ended a regulation. If they re-enact it, you won’t have suburbs anymore and send your state into a deep and crippling depression. Biden has vowed to abolish American oil and natural gas. You saw that. No fracking, no mining, no coal, no nothing. And gas prices for your beautiful large vans and cars and trucks … Some of you have trucks that you drive around in because you like that better. I think I’d be one of those. I think I’d be one of those people, but don’t you like $2 gasoline? Isn’t that nice? Well, it’ll go to $6, $7 and then you’ll be telling your family, “Let’s buy one of those little compacts that we used to buy.” Right?
Biden’s plan is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania. He’ll outlaw fracking and what we’re going to do, we’re going to stop it. We’re going to stop it. We have a little thing up there. Where is it? Right there. That cost a lot of money to get. We get that for special … You’re going to see a little bit about fracking. But all of that great stuff, your natural gas in Pennsylvania, and they’ll obliterate and extinguish your economy as sure as you’re standing and/or sitting. Do you have chairs? Yeah, you do but everybody’s standing. That’s very nice.
Today I signed an order and this is semi- breaking news. I did say it at the last stop, but I won’t tell you that. But today I signed an order just now on the plane to strongly protect your state’s energy and fracking industry. I just signed it. I just signed it. We have an order so that people cannot play with your fracking industry. You know, you have a million people and you are a big contributor to the rest of the country. You’re a tremendous contributor to the rest of the country. They can’t play with it. Biden said for a year, “There’ll be no fracking, no fracking.” He must have said it a hundred times. Then he lucks out because Elizabeth Warren refused to get out of the race. So Bernie … that’s the second time. Is Bernie running again, fake news? Could you tell us is Bernie … Bernie’s going to run again in four years. He’s going to get it. Actually, we thought it might be Bernie, right? More intelligence although, I don’t know, with a policy like that, I don’t call that great intelligence. Right, Congressman?
If Biden and Harris get in, they will terminate this executive order and implement the green new deal conceived and dedicated by AOC who probably never took a course on the environment. Do you think she ever took one little course like 101, Environment 101? I doubt it. It’ll change our whole country around. Well, it’s not going to happen. It’s so ridiculous, $100 trillion dollars, I don’t think so. A vote for Biden and Harris is a vote to ban fracking, ban mining and completely destroy Pennsylvania and it’s true, by the way. It’s not going to happen.
First of all, we’re going to win. You got to get out and vote. We’re going to win. A vote for me is a vote to remain energy … we’re energy independent now. Think of it. Energy independent. Our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%, and the fake news doesn’t want to talk about it. And a friend of mine, a great financier, called up and he said, “Hey, how you doing? This is the greatest number maybe ever put out economically, GDP 33. 1. Nobody’s ever heard of it and they hardly” … He said, “I can’t believe this isn’t a much bigger story.” I said, “That’s the way it is. They don’t want that kind of thing to get out.” It’s one of the greatest numbers ever revealed in the history of our country. The second number I think was 1952 and it was less than half the 33.1. So we have not a V anymore. We have a Super V and that’s where we’re going unless somebody comes along and says, “Let’s quadruple your taxes. Let’s put all those regulations back.”
In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs. That’s another … I mean think of it, it’s never been done before and while foreign nations are in a free fall and you see that and we don’t want that, but you see what’s going on is COVID or the China virus or the China plague. There’s about 21 different names. We’re creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse and next year will be one of the greatest years, maybe the best year that we’ve ever had based on what’s happening. A recent Gallup poll found, just out, that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago with Obama and Biden.
And that’s rounding the turn, but that’s during a pandemic, 56%, that’s a record number, 56. You’re better off today than you were four years ago with Obama and I watched him today. They draw flies, both of them. I thought maybe they put them together. They drew a couple of horns, honk, honk, honk, and most of them are our people that are taunting. Did anybody see the picture of their crazy bus driving down the highway that’s surrounded by like hundreds of cars? And they’re all Trump flags all over the place. It’s like a hot, it’s like a hot thing. See, that’s really number one trending. They won’t put that. That’s number one, trending. They come up with number one, trending. It’s not a trend. It’s whatever they want to do.
You look at Big Tech. You look at what’s been happening lately, right? You look at the media where they refuse to cover one of the biggest scandals, no, but the biggest scandal is we caught them spying on our campaign. Right? We caught them trying to overthrow a duly elected, commonly known as me, President of the United States. Let’s see what happens. Let’s see what happens. Very dishonest people.
[inaudible 00:11:03].
You’re right. Well, that you’re right. You know, there are a lot of people that call that treason. Okay. That’s treason. Let’s see what happens. If Biden gets in, the economy will collapse. Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars in countries that many of you have never even heard of. I didn’t hear of too many of them either if you want to know the truth.
Biden is a Washington vulture who decimated your steel mills, annihilated your coal jobs and supported every disastrous sellout trade deal for over a half a century. You know what’s happened. You know what I had to do with the dumped steel all over the place. They’re dumping steel. I put big tariffs on it. All of a sudden, the steel mills started doing good. It was a beautiful thing. And we took some of that money, $28 billion dollars we took, and we gave it to our farmers because they were targeted by China and our farmers like me. Our farmers like me.
In fact, they just came out with the Des Moines Register poll … Did you see it? We’re way ahead in Iowa. We’re way ahead in Florida. We’re way ahead in Ohio, way ahead in Ohio. We’re doing great in Georgia. Texas, don’t even talk, they say Texas is in play. I had the same thing four years ago. Here’s a guy he’s against oil, he’s against guns and he’s against God. I don’t think that plays well in Texas. And you know where else it doesn’t play too well? In a place called Pennsylvania.
No, think of it. Okay, you have Texas, oil, guns, religion, God, religion. So he’s against … Think of it. And then they say, “It’s too close to call.” No, we’re leading by a lot. Same thing happened last time four years ago, “It’s too close to call.” It’s not too close to call. And then the polls close. Remember last time? The doors close, the polls close, and they say, “Texas, the doors have closed, the polls have closed in Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.” By a lot. Oh, I had many of them. I had many of them. I mean I have them now but actually they’re better now than they were four years ago.
Four years ago, it was like hopeless except for one thing. Nobody believed it and they went out and they voted and all of a sudden they took this thing. Did you see ever see The New York Times? It had a little column, “The chance of winning,” and I think it started at like 4%. And then as the evening went by and we won state after state. “Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. Donald Trump has won Georgia. Donald Trump has won South Carolina. Donald Trump has …”
Donald Trump has won South Carolina. Donald Trump has won North Carolina. Donald… We’re just running the East Coast, right? And it goes 3%, 6%, 9%. Right? And the chance is 15%, then it started getting into the 50s, then the 60s, and that’s where they started to go totally crazy. Remember that convention? Remember the convention hall? And then you had a couple of non-biased news anchors that started to cry. Did anybody see the debate? No, nobody, right? That last debate we had, right? Did you all… I felt like Perry Mason, because the last question, I said, “You mean you want to get rid of the oil and gas industry?” “No, we would like to transition out of it.” I said, “This is the biggest moment.” It was like… You know Perry Mason? It was always that last question, right? No, no, I didn’t do it. I didn’t. Yes, I did it. I did it.
That was Sleepy Joe. I said, “This is the biggest moment.” And even the anchor, Kristen, she looks up at him, she goes, “Why did you say that?” Obviously being on his side, she can’t believe that he said it, but that’s because he’s not too smart. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which is one of the worst things that ever happened. To us. Not to China. Eliminating half of your manufacturing jobs, many of them came from right here. At every turn, Biden twisted his knife into the backs of Pennsylvania workers. And during that debate, he’d say, “Well, why didn’t you do this?” I said, “Why didn’t you do it? You just left.” “Why didn’t you do that?” “Why didn’t you do it, Joe?” That was like the easiest debate I’ve ever had.
While Biden was giving China your jobs, his family was raking in millions and millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician, okay? When his son considered a board of Burisma and get $183,000 a month… Now, think of is, right? Think of this. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, America wins. That’s what we’re here for. And you don’t have to take my word for it because I like this group, and I love this state. I spent a lot of money on that crazy board up there. Why don’t you watch this?
We love you. We love you.
… Joe Biden to respond. I have never said I opposed fracking.
You said it on tape.
I did… Show the tape, put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
But what about, say, stopping fracking and stopping new pipeline infrastructure and-
Yeah, yeah, new pipeline, exactly.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question. It falls-
Would he close down the oil industry?
It falls-
Would you close down the oil industry?
I would transition from the oil industry, yes.
Oh, that’s a big statement.
I would transition. That is a big statement.
In terms of business, that’s the biggest statement-
Okay, we have one final question, Mr. President.
… because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that, Texas? Will you remember that, Pennsylvania?
We have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote. Vote. Visit iwill.com/ohio. God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe, by the way, it’s not a real website. And, Joe, you’re running for president, not senator. And by the way, that senator, the Mormon guy, is Mitt Romney, not some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00 AM, well, disaster ensues. Here’s a quick reminder.
Look, tomorrow’s Super… Tuesday. And I want to thank you all. I tell you what, I’m rushing ahead, aren’t I? We hold these truths to be self-evident, all men and women created by… Go, you know the thing. Do you agree with me? Go to Joe 30330. We choose truth over facts. Play the radio, make sure the television… Excuse me. Make sure you have the record player on at night. The phone, make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids who are just as bright and just as talented as white kids. Donald Trump does pose an [inaudible 00:19:00] to this. It’s not hypothetical.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff. And I am beginning… Well, I’m more than a little worried that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading. He’s been hiding the entire campaign, and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the President of the United States of America. That would be the toughest job in the world. And at times, Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for president, or what state he’s in, or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that if elected, that Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
… what kind of country we’re going to be. Four more years of George… George, he’s going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [inaudible 00:20:05] pressure.
Trick or treat.
Ooh, who do we have here?
Spooky, spooky, spooky. Creepy. It’s creepy Uncle Joe.
Oh, it’s funny. It’s Joe.
Come on, man. Candy’s for the kids.
Well, maybe he forgot. Wait a minute. You look familiar. Who are you?
Are we going to let him get away with this?
She took everything.
Be careful. Ah, Joe, this could only happen to me. This could only happen…
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. Thank you. In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider’s president who is finally putting America first. That’s okay, right? And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. I guess that’s why I got elected. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I fight harder for you than any president has ever fought. I believe that. One of the most important issues in this election is law and order. And you know about it well, you see what’s going on in your large city. It’s not good. Now you have great police, but they’re not allowed to do their job.
This week, violent mobs of Biden supporters ransacked Philadelphia. Now, four members of the city council are pushing very hard to defund the Philadelphia police. They’re defunding the police. And they’re pushing very hard, and it could happen. It could happen. We’re watching. I don’t think we’ll let it happen. At some point, we can’t let it happen. If Biden and Harris are elected, they will pass legislation to slash police funding. They’re already trying to do it all over the country. Well, except in Republican cities and states, which are running beautifully without crime. Our opponents stand with the… Take a look at it. The rioters and the anarchists and the looters. We stand, we, we stand with the heroes of law enforcement.
We’ve been endorsed by almost every major law enforcement group in the country, Florida, Texas, New York’s finest endorse us. First time they’ve ever endorsed a presidential candidate. The Chicago police, that’s not easy to do, they endorsed. We have endorsements from everybody. During the debate, I said, “Joe, what law group, any police group, anybody looking for law and order, did anybody endorse you?” He couldn’t answer the question. Then he was bailed out by the anchor, right? He was bailed out. I said, “Joe, say the words, ‘law and order.'” He wouldn’t do it. He didn’t want to lose the radical left. I’m not just running against Joe Biden. I’m running against the left-wing media, the big tech giants, the RINOs, you know what a RINO is, right? Republican-in-name-only. We got a couple of them. There aren’t too many of them left. They’re on respirators, actually. And the Washington swamp, which is much deeper and much more vicious than we ever thought even possible. On Tuesday, November 3rd, and maybe you do it sooner, but I think this group wants November 3rd, it’s called Election Day…
Of course, now that our United States Supreme Court has delayed everything, it’s going to be a very interesting evening. And I wonder what happens during that period of delay with the ballots. I wonder what happens. Are they going to mysteriously find more ballots, Mr. Congressmen? Are they going to find more ballots? Can you imagine what happened? Can you imagine? Just be very careful, be vigilant and watch, and report whatever you see. Because this state, we love it. Went to school here, right? Went to college. We love it. But strange things have been known to happen, especially in Philadelphia. So send them a message that they’ll never forget. This election is a choice between a Biden depression and a Trump super boom. We’re going to have a boom. We’re going to have the greatest economy ever. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown. You know he wants to lock it down. And by the way, tell your governor to open up your state, please.
Can you believe it? Can you believe it? And open up your schools and get it going. It’s terrible. This one, Michigan. How about her? The only one that’s allowed to roam free in Michigan is her husband. He can do whatever the hell he wants. Nobody else can. In North Carolina, same thing. They got a great state, great people. They have it locked down. It’s just crazy. By the way, on November 4th, he’ll announce, “Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve decided to open up.” See, he thinks he’s hurting us politically. And then we have a number like 33.1. It might’ve been 34.1, okay? I don’t think that would’ve made too much of a difference, but he’s hurting a lot of people. It’s a choice between a deadly lockdown and a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic with or without the vaccine. And we’re going to have the vaccine. We have the greatest companies in the world, Pfizer, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Moderna and others.
And we’re weeks away from a vaccine. And we’re going to give the vaccine. We’re going to have it transported by our military all over, logistics all over the country. And it’s going to be great. And it’s going to be given to our seniors first. I think they have to get it first. And our frontline workers. Free. Free. You know why it’s free? Because it wasn’t their fault. It was China’s fault. And it will quickly eradicate the China virus. But with or without it, it’s going to go away, and we are rounding… It drives them crazy, the fake news media, it’s going away. And if you look at Europe, you look what’s happening over in Europe, they’d always use that as, “Look at Europe.” Well, take a look at Europe, they have a problem, a big problem, and we don’t want that to happen.
Thanks to our groundbreaking therapies, our excess mortality rate is 40% lower than Europe’s. And right now, cases are surging in Europe, despite draconian lockdowns, they’d been locking down, and it didn’t help them much, that are spreading misery and suffering and destroying those nations. For months, democrats celebrated as left-wing rioters took to the streets by the thousands. You’re allowed to riot. They don’t ask about masks. You’re allowed to riot. You’re allowed to go through, loot and burn stores, burn down your main streets, burn down the greatest, beautiful, the most beautiful shopping streets. You can do whatever. They could walk out with televisions. Did you see the guy walking out with dishwashers? He’s pushing it along the pavement. And the police had told, “Don’t do anything. Stand back, stand back. No, we can’t do it.” Our opponents do not believe-
No, we can’t do it. Our opponents do not believe in science. They want unlimited power over you and your family. They got to open it up. The so-called experts advising Joe Biden have called for slowing down the vaccine. Can you believe this?
Now, if it weren’t, in my opinion, so political, they just didn’t want to have it come out before the election. But everybody knows it’s right there, and we’re ready to go, but it became a big political thing. And they were actually trying to discourage people from taking it. That’s so bad and so stupid and so dangerous. And these are great companies.
These are the greatest companies in the world. They’re not listening to anybody, but there are people. And we do. We have a great … well, soon, very soon be distributed, this great vaccine, but they’re willing to hurt our country in order to try and make sure that it doesn’t. Because we’re not looking for credit. We’re looking to save lives. We’re looking to help our country, help your state, help our country. That’s what we’re looking to do. Denying priority to elderly patients. They want to deny the priority, imposing crippling lockdowns that will cause quote “Really serious pain. They’ve said that. One of the politicians said it, “Really serious pain.”
The Biden lockdown will imprison you and your home while looters roam free. But you’ve already gone through that, in all fairness. You’re going through it right now. They just don’t open up the state. Congressmen, you got to get going on this. I’ll tell you, you got to get going on this. We have great congressmen here. We got to get going on this.
Under Biden, there will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Easters, no Christmases and no 4th of July. Other than that, you’ve got to have a wonderful life. No, think of this guy, ruined American youth.
It’s been shown that telehealth has been amazing, with the computers, with the laptops. It’s been great. It’s up like 8000%. The truth is, it’s great. But you know, children, this has been proven now, because we’ve had the ultimate test, children have to go to school. They have to be with other kids. They have to be with classmates, and they don’t catch it. Barron Trump, my very tall son, he’s strong, and he’s young. And the doctor said, “Yes, sir. He tested positive.” I said, “Doctor, tested positive for what?” He said, “For COVID.” He used the COVID word, right? Could he used 21 other words, but he used COVID.
And I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” Doctor said, “Don’t worry about it. He’ll be all right.” 12 minutes later, the doctor called, “Barron’s okay now, sir.” He threw it off. Because they’re young. They have great immune systems, stronger than you, or you, or you. That guy, definitely stronger than him.
And they got to go back to school. Okay? They got to go back to school. Open up. Open up Pennsylvania. Governor. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family and freedom to live your life the way you want to live your life, vote for a person named President Donald J. Trump. Have you ever heard of him? Of the Republican party.
So joining us today are some really great, I mean, really great, warriors, and they are Congressman Fred Keller. Fred, thank you. Thank you very much. Central casting. Doing a great job. Thank you. And Congressman Dan Meuser. Dan, thank you very much. Thank you. Great people, great people. They worked with us on the impeachment hoax.
Now it turned out that it was really a hoax, because they found out that I was right when I spoke to the president, right? I told him, I said, “If you see anything wrong, please call the Attorney General of the United States.” And they had plenty wrong. You look at Biden. He got caught. They call that the laptop from hell. Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? Remember the tee-shirt we made, “Where’s Hunter?” Ah, boy, Hunter.
We also have a fantastic person who is running for a congressional seat and who’s doing very well, I understand, Jim Bognet. Where is Jim? Jim, I hear it’s going well, going good. Get out and vote for this guy. He’s a star. He’s going to be great. And a former Congressman who’s been a right early supporter, a great one, Tom Marino. Thank you, Tom. When are you getting back? Come on back. Okay? Great one, and we have another great one. Nobody ever heard of him. Lou Barletta. These are great people. They’re incredible people. Thank you both. That’s great that you’re here.
And state treasurer candidate, Stacy Garrity. Stacy. Thank you, Stacy. I hear you’re doing well, Stacy. I think the Republican party is doing very well. I can tell you one thing. They are really worried, because Florida, boom, through the roof. Ohio, through the roof, Georgia is looking phenomenal, Texas, I told you, forget it. It’s great. Texas is so good. Iowa’s looking great. They’re all looking good. North Carolina.
You know what’s looking really good? Pennsylvania. But get out and vote. Maybe I should say it’s going to be … No, let me take that back. It’s not looking good. It’s very close. It looks like we’re one or two points behind. It’s always good. It’s always good to think you’re about a point or two behind, right? These professionals tell us. Right?
I don’t want to tell you we’re doing good. Let’s just say it’s very close. Get out and vote on Tuesday. Just get out and vote. But it’s true. You never know. We are looking good, and I don’t want you to think that. I want you to think it’s going to be close. We’re looking so good. Darling, we don’t have to vote today. It’s looking great. Oh, that’s great.
Joe Biden has been a disaster for African Americans and Hispanic Americans. I’m fighting for citizens of every race, color and creed. We achieved record low African American, Hispanic, American, and Asian American unemployment rates, record low unemployment rates for anybody with a diploma, without a diploma. Number one [inaudible 00:34:36] class at MIT, women, everything.
We have historic rates, and then we had to close it up and understand the disease. And what they’ve done is incredible, the ventilators, all of the things that we did. And then we’re opening it up now, and it’s going to be a super-V. They were saying, “Oh, it won’t be a V.” Well, now 33.1. It’s called a super-V. We’re going to have the best economic year in the history of our country next year, unless you elect somebody that wants to do a quadrupling of your taxes. I don’t know. I don’t think that’s going to happen.
So I signed landmark criminal justice reform, and I announced a platinum plan, which will create three million new jobs for African Americans and also deliver school choice to any parent that wants it, which is so important. They’ve been looking to do that for a long time. To protect our security, I suspended the entry of foreign refugees from terror-afflicted nations, if it’s okay with you. I mean, you don’t mind. We don’t want people from terror-inflicted.
Think of this. Biden, in the manifesto, that’s the agreement that he made with crazy Bernie Sanders. Although I shouldn’t say that, because we get a lot of the Sanders people. People don’t realize, four years ago, we got a big percentage of Bernie Sanders, because they agree with me on trade. They know everyone takes advantage of the United States on trade. And we are doing great on trade right now.
Biden wants a 700% increase in refugees from the most violent terrorist hotspots on earth, including Syria, Somalia and Yemen. No thanks, Joe. Thank you very much. We appreciate it, Joe. No thank you. The people of Pennsylvania aren’t thrilled with that. Who the hell is going to vote for this guy?
They keep saying it’s close. I don’t think it’s close, but get out and vote. It’s close. It’s extremely close. It’ll be extremely close. “Trump wins by 44 points.” No, no it’s close. No, but think of it. He wants to raise your taxes. He wants to let people in from places that you don’t want them. We want to have safety and security. And that’s why when you talk about suburbia. They were saying, women of suburbia …
We love you.
Good. Thank you, darling. Because they want safety, they want security, and they wanted the regulation terminated. You know what? I don’t want to go into it. The regulation is a disaster for suburbia. And you know who’s going to head up the regulation project is Cory Booker of all people, Cory [inaudible 00:09:20].
You too can have a development right alongside of your wonderful house. No, it’s no good, no good, going to bring a lot of problems. It’s already done. I mean, you take a look at throughout the country where it’s been done, and I terminated it. They wanted to amend it. Ben Carson’s a wonderful guy. Ben came in. He says, “Well, we can … ” He’s a wonderful guy. He is. And he ran a good race too. He’s a great guy. He’s a nice guy. And he’s a great guy, and he’s done a terrific job, but he came and he said, “We can amend it a little bit and make it tougher.” I said, “No, Ben, we got to terminate it.”
And then I hear the women of suburbia don’t like me. I think they love me. I think they do. And when I said that the other day, I said, “Women of suburbia, I hope you love me.” 60 minutes, she said, “You were begging for the love of women.” I said, “No, I wasn’t. I was having fun.” “But you were begging here.” It’s true. I say women of suburbia, you must love me after what I did. I cut the regulation. You don’t know what the regulation was.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
I love you too. I love you too. Just get out and vote properly. Just do what’s right. You do what’s right, we’re going to have a big victory. The Biden plan … I mean, this guy had so many years to do all this stuff. All he does is complain, “You didn’t do this.” “Oh, really? Why didn’t you do it. You just left three-and-a-half years ago.”
The Biden plan will open the floodgates to radical Islamic terrorism. You know that. Just take a look. I called president Macron of France. It’s terrible what’s been happening over there the last week. You’ve seen what’s been happening. And if you don’t mind, I’d rather not have it happen over here. Is that okay? Do I have everybody’s approval on that? Huh? Even these two veterans are saying, “We agree with that.”
And I’m keeping the terrorists out of our country. And when they come back in, we’re getting them the hell out of our country. Okay? We invested 2.5 trillion, with a T, trillion dollars in the US military when I took over four years ago. Can you believe it?
Almost four years ago, our military was depleted from all of these Wars and all of this stuff and places so far away and lands that’s so far away, and we were depleted. And a very highly overrated general, you’ve heard me say this, extraordinarily overrated, he came into my office, and he said right at the beginning, “Sir, we have no ammunition.”
I said, “No president should ever have that said to him again.” And we built a brand new military, with new planes and new rockets. Hypersonic. That’s seven times faster than our very fast one. So fast, you can’t see it, can’t do anything with it. If it’s aimed in the wrong direction, you got problems, I’ll tell you. And submarines.
All of the things we’re doing, we’ve never had anything like it. We are the envy of the world, Russia, China, North Korea. We’re the envy of the world. We have the greatest equipment in the world. We used to have planes, fighter jets. They’d go to the desert, where they have what they call the graveyard, the plane graveyard. And they’d take parts of old planes, and bring them in. ow we have brand new F-35 stealth, super-stealth, many others.
It’s amazing. We’ve rebuilt our military. It’s never been so good. Never been. We’ve never had equipment like this, the best equipment anywhere in the world by far. And we saved a place called the Philadelphia shipyard. I don’t think you’ve ever heard of that. And Biden, if he comes in, will shut it down. He’s going to shut it down. He’ll shut down a lot of this stuff. We also passed VA choice and VA accountability. That’s pretty great. Right? They’ve been trying to get that done for 40 some odd years.
Last night, at my direction, the United States military conducted a successful operation to rescue at American hostage who was kidnapped just a short while ago. US special forces brilliantly executed a daring nighttime movement. It was incredible. I’ve seen it. It was incredible. And we had no casualties, no injuries.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
That’s great. No, we had no casualties, no injuries, no nothing incredible. These are incredible …
… no injuries, no nothing. Incredible. These are incredible people. These are incredible people and they love our country, but they went in and the other side did have a lot of casualties. We got our citizen, our American citizen, out on our way here and it was an incredible operation. People said, “Oh, that can’t be done.” These guys looked at me like, “Sir, this is easy.” It’s a different kind of person, right? Different kind of person. We owe a lot to Special Forces. Over the last four years, we’ve rescued a record 55 hostages and detainees in more than 24 countries, and we don’t pay. We don’t pay. Once you pay, it’ll go up a hundred fold. You can’t pay. You have to go get them. Yesterday’s operation should serve as a stark warning to terrorists and thugs who try and kidnap our people, kidnap our citizens. You cannot escape the long reach of American justice, and that’s what happened.
We killed the leader of ISIS, Al-Baghdadi. They’d been looking for him for 18 years. We took out the mass murder of U.S. troops and many other troops and a lot of people. Soleimani is dead. Number one terrorist. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion. We got nothing, we got nothing. I recognize the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years, they’d been negotiating that. I did it in two hours and it was a good thing. Every president wanted to do this stuff, every president. Jerusalem, they all wanted to do it. They all said they were going to do it. They got into office. They never had the guts to pull the trigger and do it.
I got the building bill too, by the way. You know that story. We’ve got to build for a tiny fraction of what people thought it would cost. Tiny fraction, but it’s too long of a story and it’s too cold to be talking about the building. The heck with it, right? Instead of endless wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. We have already three countries and many more lined up. No more blood in the sand, no more crazy money spent all over the place. No, we did it the opposite way that John Kerry and these people that were not smart. In fact, they were grossly incompetent. You know how I started? I said, “How did Kerry do it?” “This way.” “Okay, whatever he did, do the opposite.” And it worked. We have a lot of them all lined up here to have peace. We could have peace in the Middle East for nothing and no blood. I talked no blood in the sand, there’s blood all over that sand. There’s no blood in the sand.
I’m proud to be the first president in decades who has started no new wars. No new wars. But if we ever do start a war, we’ll finish it and we’ll finish it victoriously. We won’t be playing games. A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote to save our beautiful American dream. It’s an American dream and we’ve lost sight of that over a long period of years, if you think. Remember I came out and campaigned? I was up here, I said, “You will say Merry Christmas again.” Right? The department stores. They were saying, “Happy new year, everybody.” The snow and the red and the white, everything perfect. But they didn’t want to say Merry Christmas. I said, “You’re going to say Merry Christmas,” and now they’re all saying Merry Christmas again. We remember the party of the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? The late great Abraham Lincoln.
Over the next four years, in conclusion, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms, our second amendment. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed, January 1st goes into effect. Bigger than healthcare, you watch. Lower drug prices, even more, favored nations clause. We paid for years and years. The most expensive by far in the world. Now we’re going to pay the same as the lowest and the drug companies do not like me too much, I will tell you. They’re not a big fan of your president. They can’t even believe I did it. Favored nations. We pay the lowest price in the world, protect social security and Medicare and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always. Always. It’s protected.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars and NASA is now again the talk of the world. Space center, the talk to the world. It was boarded up, shut up, the runways were … they had grass growing through the cracks. It’s an amazing place. We let very rich people … They like sending up rockets. I said, “Let them set up all the rockets they want. Let them pay for it. We’ll lease them their sights and let them go out and have a lot of fun.” They’ll become a little less wealthy and that’s okay. They don’t mind, but they love sending up rockets and we’re doing things that nobody can even believe, and with Space Force, it’s so necessary so we’re very proud of it.
Mike Pence has done a fantastic job on it. Really done a fantastic job. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania, who I know very well. If we win in Pennsylvania, it’s over. You know that, right? Bet I’m freezing up here, I’m freezing. You better get out and vote. “Sir, you lost by just a few votes in Pennsylvania.” I say, “What the hell did I make that trip for?” They said, “We could cancel if you’d like. It’s been a long day.” I started this day very early. I said, “No, I don’t have the courage to tell these people …” Not only did we not, we’re giving you the full treatment. We’re giving you the full treatment. I could have done one of those, “Hey folks, how you doing? Everybody good? Good. I’ll see you later.” Nah, we don’t do that. But you get out there and vote because your country’s at stake. You have the power with your vote to save the American dream for your children, for your grandchildren. But you have to get out and vote. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the swamp.
We’ve done a lot of work on it, but it’s deeper and more vicious than anybody thought. It’s more vicious. Look at what’s happening with these big tech companies. Nobody told me this stuff, but you know what? They can’t believe what we’ve done. We have come through situations. It’s amazing. Look at them. They’re sitting in there. They can’t believe … One of the reasons I also came as I wanted them to stand there all night in this freezing wind.
But it is an honor. I’ll tell you what. I know this part of the state and I know it and you have just incredible people. There’s no way I would have had the courage to say, “Let’s not do that. We’ll do it some other time.” There’s no way we do that stuff. We don’t do that stuff. We don’t do that stuff, especially to you. For generations America’s destiny was made, forged, and won in places like Johnstown and Pittsburgh, Erie and Altoona, Bethlehem and Montoursville. That’s a nice name.
Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up those great, beautiful skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come. Best is yet to come. I mean that too. The potential we have, unless we blow it by putting people that have no clue in charge. He has no clue. He’s shot. He’s shot. Let’s face it. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. That’s what’s happening. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We’re going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again. Our military, military. We have made America wealthy again. Look at what’s happening with your 401ks. In the midst of a problem, look at those 401ks. Somebody else you would have had nothing. You would have had a piece of paper. You would have been throwing it away and it’s going up a lot. Our headwind is Joe Biden. That’s the only headwind we have to get it up. He’s a headwind, believe it or not. We have a great new name, Joe Headwind. He’s a headwind on the stock market because if he gets in the market will crash. That’s not what the market wants to hear. We’re going to quadruple taxes. We’re going to drive out every company that’s come back into this land. No, he’s a headwind. He really is.
We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you very much, Pennsylvania. Get out and vote. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Hello, Pennsylvania. Let’s go, Pennsylvania. We’ve got to do the same thing we did four years ago, and I have a feeling… Look at this, I have a feeling we’re going to do it. And hello, Butler. Butler, right? Three days from now, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and we are going to win four more years in our great and beautiful White House. With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut regulations, and ensure more products are stamped, very proudly, with that wonderful term, Made in the USA. Nobody else talks about that. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You saw what happened the other day? They don’t like to report it. GDP 33.1, biggest in history. Biggest in history by far. Some people say it’s one of the biggest moments for our country economically. They don’t like to report it. There’s a lot of fake news out there. A lot of fake news.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
Thank you.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
Thank you.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
Joe Biden will shut down your economy, ship your jobs to China, where they pay him a lot of money, raise your taxes $4 trillion, and send your state into a deep and catastrophic depression. That’s what’s going to happen. He’s going to raise your taxes. He’s the only man I’ve ever seen, he campaigns, “We will raise your taxes.” All my life I’ve seen guys… You study politics, and you say, “I’ve never seen anyone say, ‘We’re going to raise your taxes.'” That’s his primary theme, “We’re going to raise your taxes,” and “We’ll end fracking,” that was the other thing. Remember?
He’d said it for a year, and then he came to Pennsylvania. They said, “We have a million jobs.” “Oh, okay, well, we’ll leave fracking.” But the people won’t let him. His bosses won’t let him. Biden has vowed to abolish the entire US oil industry. No fracking, no mining, no natural gas, no heating in the winter, no air conditioning in the summer, no electricity during peak hours. And gas prices, you like that $2 gas, right? How about $5, $6 and $7? “Darling, let’s sell the car. It’s a little bit too large. Let’s get a compact.” Biden’s plan is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania. He will outlaw fracking and eradicate your great economy. You had the greatest year you’ve ever had last year. And now next year, you’re going to have the best. If this happens with the taxes and with the fracking, you’re going to have a real problem in Pennsylvania.
Kamala, Kamala Harris. You have to pronounce her name exactly right, or she gets very upset with you. Although our great vice president beat her very badly in that debate, wouldn’t you say? Very badly. By far the most liberal senator in the US Senate. In fact, Bernie Sanders is like a conservative by comparison. She even sponsored the Green New Deal. That’s another beauty, the Green New Deal. But I have great news for Pennsylvania. So this has just happened. This is like breaking news. Are you ready for breaking news? Because we have to protect you. Are you ready? Moments ago, I signed an order to protect Pennsylvania fracking and block any effort to undermine energy production in your state. So in other words, if one of these maniacs come along and they say, “We’re going to end fracking, we’re going to destroy the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,” you can say, “Sorry about that. You have just…” I signed it on that beautiful Marine One. Did you see that?
I said, “Go right over them.” Did you see it go right over you? Whoa. It’s a good way to arrive, right? No, I just signed it on the helicopter, I just signed it, and I’m very honored to have done it. So we’re protected. So now if they say, “We’re going to do this or that,” let’s just say they’re going to have a long fight. Pennsylvania oil and natural gas in the Marcellus Shale contributes $45 billion to your local economy. I’d say 45 billion’s a lot. No, but he said if… oh, so for, what, a year, right? He’s on the stage with the super liberals. They had like 27 of them. We only had 17 running for the Republican. You remember? 17 plus one. I was the one. And they said, “No, he doesn’t really want it. He just wants to have a good time.” No. And by the way, do you consider this a good time, okay? Okay, let me ask you, is there a better place to be anytime, anywhere than a Trump rally, right? We’re having a good time. We have a good time.
You know why I have a good time? Because no president, no administration has done more in the first three and a half years with tax cuts and regulation cuts and rebuilding our military and helping our vets and all of the things we’ve done. And therefore I have a good time, but we’re fighting a very nasty deep state. And if we win, and we’re going to, I… I don’t know if you see what’s going on. Florida, ooh, it’s looking very good. They’re very concerned. They’re saying, “What’s going on in Florida?” We love Florida. We’re getting a lot of votes down there. This isn’t based on polling, polling where they say, “Let’s see, what are we going to give him today? Let’s put him down like 30. What are we going to do? Suppression. Let’s do a…” No, no, the votes are actually coming in. We’re looking very good in a place called Pennsylvania, but don’t tell everybody. Don’t tell everybody.
Right, Mike? Have you seen? Our great Congressman. Mike, have you seen? Very good, very good numbers. Very, very good numbers, incredible. But when you have crowds like this, and, honestly, this is my third stop. Can you believe? I have a fourth one. I have a fourth one. Other guys, they go home, “Darling, what are we having for dinner?” I say, “I got to speak in front of another 25,000 tonight.” It’s all right. That’s all right. We got to do what we got to do. We got to get the job done. Just make sure you get out and vote. But Pennsylvania oil and natural gas supports nearly 1 million Pennsylvania jobs. So when Sleepy Joe heard that, he said, “Yeah, of course I like fracking.” But it’s not going to happen. It won’t happen. It’s not real. And it’s one of the state’s top exports, that’s what it is. Energy is your top, or one of your top exports. This is the biggest thing you do.
If Joe Biden is elected, he will cancel our… And you know that, he’s going to terminate, frankly, a better word, terminate your energy industry and every job because they want to go to wind. They want to go… They don’t even want wind. Honestly, I don’t think they want energy period, close down every factory. I don’t think they want anything. I don’t think they have any idea what they want. I know Joe doesn’t. For a fact, he doesn’t. He has no clue. He is totally shot, okay? You see the new sunglasses, the aviator glasses, right? They should be a little bit larger, covers up those new eyes. A vote for Biden and Harris is a vote to ban fracking, ban mining, and completely destroy Pennsylvania. Otherwise, he’s not bad. A vote for me is a vote to remain energy independent and build the strongest economy in the history or your state and of your country. And our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. That was the 33.1% that the fake news doesn’t want to talk about. Think of that, faster than any nation in the world.
In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs. That’s a… Nobody’s… We’ve never done that. We’ve never done it. You know what? We’ve built such a strong foundation, we had the greatest economy in the history of our country, and we had the plague. We had the plague come in from China, and we had to close it up for a little while. And we closed it up, and then… But the foundation was so strong. And that’s why, I don’t know if you saw auto production, housing production, the numbers are through the roof. Many of the numbers are bigger and better. Did you know this, Mike Kelly? The numbers are bigger and better than they were before the plague came in. Okay? It’s pretty amazing, right? It’s pretty amazing. That’s because the foundation… If we didn’t have the foundation, it would be just the opposite. We would’ve been in big trouble. And again, faster than any other nation. While foreign nations are in a total free fall, we’re creating the world’s greatest economic powerhouse. And that’s what we’re doing.
We’re going to have a greater year next year. I mean, unless somebody comes in and quadruples your taxes, “We’re going to raise taxes.” A recent Gallup poll, this is amazing, just came out, found that 56% of Americans say they’re better off today than they were four years ago under the Obama-Biden administration. And in all fairness, that’s during a pandemic, and we’re rounding the corner of the pandemic, but that’s during a pandemic, think of that.
Thank you.
If Biden… Thank you too. I don’t know. Wow, he’s got to have a… They’re back there. Look at that, you can’t even see. You can’t even see. No, it’s like, you can’t even see the end of people. A lot of people. There’s a lot of people here. If Biden gets in, the economy will…
(silence)
(silence) The last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars, in countries that most of you have never even heard of. Biden is a Washington vulture who decimated your steel mills, annihilated your coal jobs, that’s for sure. And supported every disastrous sellout trade deal for a half a century.
Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, the worst trade deal ever made. And for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, where they are considered at a level where they get all the advantages. We don’t get the advantages. They’re considered a developing nation. I said, “No, no, you’re not going to be a developing nation. We’re a developing nation.” Because if you’re a developing nation, you get all of the advantages. And we were treated very badly. And we said, “Look, we’re going to have to talk about this.”
We pulled out of the World Health Organization. You know why? No. So we have 325 million people. China has 1.5 billion people. Right. We paid $500 million a year. They paid $39 million a year. In addition to that, they had guys, and for this I give them credit, but they had guys that practically ran the place. Right. So they’re paying 39 and we’re paying 500. And we have a smaller population, but we have a stronger economy and we were beating them. For the last 10 years, anybody in business, you heard 2019 China will surpass the United States in the economy. That China was going to be a bigger economy than… 2019, 2019. And then I came along and we were skyrocketing way, way above. They would’ve never caught us. They would have never caught us. Then we got hit with a plague, but now we’re bringing it back into… I talked about a V and the fake news said it won’t happen. It’s a super V.
Four more years.
Super V.
Four more years.
Thank you.
Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Four more years.
Now we have a super V. That’s even better. They all said, “Oh, it won’t be a V. It’ll be a K or it’ll be an S.” They have no idea what the hell they’re talking about. They want to make it as bad as possible, but it’s a super V. That’s what’s going to happen. And a big thing in the election, if we win, you’re going to see a stock market that roars. We have a headwind and the headwind is we’re in an election. If Biden ever got in, you’ll go… I mean, can you imagine quadrupling everyone’s taxes and all of the regulations put back on?
And I’m a believer in regulation, but not where it takes you 20 years to build a highway. By the way, we’re down to two years. We’re going to get it down to one. And it may get rejected. And if it does, that’s fine, for safety reasons, for environmental reasons, something. But you’re going to know in a year, and you’re going to be able to build your highway. And it’s so much… You have no idea. We have done… You are so lucky I’m your president.
You are so lucky. You are so lucky that we’ve taken this journey together. Right. We’ve taken this journey, this beautiful journey together. And it is, it’s been an amazing journey, but we’ve accomplished so much. At every turn Biden twisted his knife into the backs of Pennsylvania workers. When sleepy Joe Biden was giving China your jobs, his family was raking in millions and millions of dollars from the Chinese communist party.
Boo.
And whether you like it or not, Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. And you see what’s happened. And they don’t like that. See, what they’ll do is they’re going to do… Because they don’t want any of that to get out, because we’ve learned a lot about the media. They don’t let any of this get out. They don’t want any of it to get out.
Nobody knew this. We have learned more in the last two weeks about the media and about the tech giants, big tech. We’ve learned a lot. We learned a lot. But you know what? The word spreads. It’s very hard for them. Take a look at this. The word spreads. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, America wins and we produce the greatest economy ever.
In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment. And you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first. You mind? You mind? And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician.
This is one of the reasons I got elected. Like these guys, like my friends, they’re good politicians. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fight harder for you than any president has ever fought. That I can tell you.
And I’m not just running against Joe Biden. I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants, the rhinos. You know what a rhino is? A rhino is Republican in name only. We know too many of them. Right. But they’re a dying breed. They can’t believe it. They used to make so much money. And now, they’re reduced to doing other things. They don’t like us too much, but that’s okay. That’s the way it’s supposed to be.
And the Washington swamp, we are draining. The swamp was very deep and very vicious. On Tuesday, November 3rd, you can send them a message that they will never forget. You don’t have to take my word, on Biden’s betrayals. So what I do for very special states like Pennsylvania, what I do is we produce a video. Go take a look. It’s an expensive video. Take a look.
We love you Donald Trump.
Get Biden to [crosstalk 00:22:44].
I have never said, I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
I did… Show the tape. Put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee we’re going to use fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
But Biden, what about say, stopping fracking.
Yes.
And stopping pipeline infrastructure?
Yes, no pipeline. Exactly.
There’s no question, I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question, it falls-
Would he close down the oil industry?
It falls…
Would you close down the oil industry?
It falls…
I would transition from the oil industry. Yes.
Oh, that’s a big difference.
I would transition. That is a big different.
In terms of business, that’s a bigger statement.
Okay. We have one final question. Mr. President.
Because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas?
Okay.
Will you remember that Pennsylvania?
No, we have to come together. That’s why I’m running. I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote, vote. Visit iwill.com/ohio. God bless you.
Can somebody tell Joe, by the way, it’s not a real website. And Joe, you’re running for president, not Senator. And by the way, that Senator, the Mormon guy, is Mitt Romney. Not some Mormon governor. Now, sadly, what we showed you, that’s just from a couple of hours today. Because every time that Joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10:00 AM, well, disaster ensues. Here’s a quick reminder.
Tomorrow’s Superstar Thursday. And I want to thank you all. I tell you what, I’m rushing ahead, aren’t I? We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men and women created by the… Go. You know the thing. Do you agree with me? Go to Joe 30330. We choose truth over facts.
Play the radio, make sure the television… Excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night, the phone. Make sure the kids hear words. Poor kids are just as bright and just as talented as white kids. Donald Trump does pose an actual strength to this… It’s not hypothetical.
This is pretty serious. By the way, these are way beyond an occasional campaign gaff. And I am beginning… Well, I’m more than a little worry that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country. He’s obviously not capable of leading.
He’s been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him. Joe wants to be the president of the United States of America. That would be the toughest job in the world. And at times, Joe doesn’t seem to remember that he’s even running for president, or what state he’s in, or what day of the week it is. Does anyone really believe that, if elected, that Joe Biden will actually be in control of anything?
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of Georgia. Georgia we’re going to find ourselves in a position where, if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world. I’ll lead an effective strategy to mobilize [trunalimunumaprzure 00:32:03].
[inaudible 00:26:25].
Trick or treat.
Oh, what do we have here?
Spooky, spooky, spooky, spooky. Creepy. It’s big uncle Joe.
Oh, it’s funny. It’s Joe.
Come on, man. Candy’s for the kids.
Maybe he forgot.
Wait a minute. You look familiar. Who are you?
Are we going to let him get away with this?
She took everything.
We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump.
Thank you very much. There’s a lot of truth in that, isn’t there? This election is a choice between a Biden depression, which is what will happen, or a Trump boom. There’s going to be a boom. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown. And by the way, Governor, open up the state of Pennsylvania. Open them up.
Open up those schools, open it up. Or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic. It’s ending anyway, but we have the greatest companies in the world and we’re literally weeks away. And we’re going to mass distribute the vaccine in just a little while. We have our great military doing it and they are set to do this. They’re going to do it so quickly. We’ll eradicate more quickly the virus. Wipe out the China plague once and for all.
And it’s back to work, back to work, which is what we want. You know what we want? We want normal. We want normal. We want normal. Let’s go back, go back seven months. Hello. How are you doing? Biden will delay the vaccine and impose a crushing lockdown on all America. Jimmy wants to lock it down. He has no idea. They’ll tell him what to do. He’ll do whatever they ask.
Even on the youngest Americans who are at the lowest risk, like Barron Trump, 14 years old. “Sir, your son just tested positive.” I said, “Positive for what, doc?” He didn’t say the China plague. Yes, he said, “He’s got COVID.” So he’s 14. He’s very tall. You know, Baron, right? He’s very tall. But he’s strong. And he’s got tough… I asked 12 minutes later. How’s Baron doing? “Sir, he’s fine. It’s all gone.” I said, “That wasn’t too long, Doc. Are you sure he had it.” “Yeah, he had it.”
That’s why I say, get the kids back to school. Get them back. Get them back to school. But I had it. I’m sure you didn’t hear that. Did you hear that, sir? Did you see the debate the other night? Yes. It was a big debate. They had a lot of people watch it. That was good. That was good. We did a good job of exposing… That was like Perry Mason.
You know the whole thing about the oil? I said, “Well, wait a minute. Let’s talk about this. We’re just about ready to go off the air.” Even she, she looked, Kristen Walker. She was fair. She wasn’t supposed to be, she was fair. She looked at him when he’s making a statement about, “Yeah, we’re going to transition out of oil. We’re going to transition out of this, out of the fracking.” And she said, “Why did you say that?” Right. Even I said. I felt like Perry Mason. In the end, everything’s going badly. And then, “I did it. I did it.” It was him. I’m going to transition. He didn’t have to answer.
I said, “You mean you’re going to get out of oil” “No, I’m going to transition.” “Oh, that’s okay. What did you say?” And I just hope you people were listening. Okay. Because that’s where it’s coming. The Biden lockdown will result in countless deaths from suicide, drug overdose, deferred medical care, all sorts of abuse, all sorts of problems. The cure can never be worse, remember, I’ve been saying it from the beginning, than the problem itself. You can’t do that.
He will imprison you in your home, letting writers roam free. We call this a protest because the only way you can meet is if you have a protest. They weren’t expecting this kind of a protest. Right. If you want to go to church, if you want to go to church, you can’t.
If you want to burn down the stores and run down Main Street and knock people over and do whatever you want to do, that’s okay. Because they want to make sure that they can protest. Not with me. Under Biden, there will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Easter, no Christmas, no 4th of July. No nothing.
Boo.
Other than that, you’re going to have a wonderful life. Now, we’ve got a great future. We have more potential in this country. He made a mistake and I watched him. It was really boring. That’s the case. 10 people and Obama came, brought another 10 with them. They have nobody. All you hear is a couple of horns. And most-
And with them, they have nobody. All you hear is a couple of horns, and most of the horns are from our people. Did you see? And he called them, what did he call them? Ugly people or something, that was terrible. He shouldn’t say, it’s not politically correct. He’s been in this business a long time, 47 years. He shouldn’t be saying that. Yeah, but most of the noise is our people. It’s like, ah, this is some… You know, in history, there’s never been a movement like this. There really hasn’t. There’s never been anything like this. There’s never been. And we have the fake news, 96% against us. Think of it, because you’re smart. The smartest people are you, you get it. No, you have them against… Oh, their heads are exploding, as a friend of ours would say. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your great family, and freedom to live your life, then I am asking you to vote for Republican. Vote for Trump. Let’s keep it going. We’ll keep it going. We’ll keep it going.
We have more potential. But Biden said today, he said, there’s never been a better time to run, there’s never been a better time to run this country. This country is in great shape. And I’m saying, wait a minute. He’s not supposed to be saying that. It was sort of a strange thing, but I don’t know if anybody picked it up. I’m sure if they did, they wouldn’t mention it. Oh, if I did, it’s a disaster. I have to watch every word. Even pronunciation. If you pronounce a word slightly off, you know, you’re talking for five days, one word, it’s like, oh… These people are the worst.
Joining us today are the opposite of the worst. They’re warriors, and they’ve been with me from the beginning. 197 to nothing with the fake impeachment, the impeachment over a phone call. Hello, congratulations on winning. Right? Ukraine. If you see any corruption, please report it to the attorney general of the United States, because they have a lot of corruption in Ukraine. They say, let’s impeach him for that. And what a disgrace, honestly. Wasn’t that a disgrace? Think of it. The time wasted, the time wasted. But we have some people that fought with me, and on other things too, and we haven’t lost. We haven’t lost yet.
We’ll start with a man who is great, respected by everybody in Washington and here, and loved by this entire state, Congressman Mike Kelly. A real friend. Great guy, great guy. And another warrior, Guy Reschenthaler. Guy, where’s Guy? What happened to your location, Guy? What happened? You’re being very nice to a lot of people, Guy, that’s very good. Thank you. Great help. And another one, Congressman GT Thompson. GT. Great, thank you. Great job. They’re warriors. They really are incredible, and we want to get you a couple of… GT, can we get you a couple of other warriors, do you mind? Congressional candidate, Luke Negron. Luke Negron, [inaudible 00:03:26]. I heard you’re doing very well, Luke. Go win, get them and get these people out, get the Nancy Pelosi crowd out. Crazy Nancy. Crazy Nancy. They don’t represent your values. They don’t.
Another one who’s going to be an absolute star, running against a lamb, a little lamb. Running against a lamb. And this guy is, he’s fantastic, I’ll tell you. You have to see his record, he’s a hero. He’s a hero. He’s a star. I’m even tweeting him all the time. I said, he’s got it. You know, they fixed around and played around with a district, now they’re having a problem with ballots. They sent like, thousands of ballots out, and they were wrong. So they said, oh, don’t worry about them. Just send them in. They will, do you know where they’ll send them to? The Elections Commission. So Sean’s got to be careful, but Sean is a star. Sean, Sean Parnell. Sean. He’s a star. And he’s a tough cookie. Tough cookie. Maybe tough enough, I don’t know, this is interesting, Sean may be tough enough to have played football for the great Lou Holtz, who’s a friend of mine. Where is Lou Holtz? Come here a little, come here.
So Lou has been, Lou is a great, great coach and a great guy, and he’s an inspiration to a lot of people. He just lost his incredible wife. How many years, Lou, were you with her?
59 years.
59. That’s one I’ll never be able to top you on, Lou. But he had a great wife who was really brave in what she went through, and he’s getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom for just an outstanding life. Want to say something, Lou? Say something, go ahead.
I am just so humbled to be here. This crowd, the enthusiasm, the people, are tremendous. The only thing I want to say is, ask yourself if you didn’t show up, who would miss you and why. Think what’d happen if President Trump hadn’t shown up in the year 2016, and what he has done for this country and how great. Let’s just show up on November 3rd or before then to make sure that this country has a chance, because this isn’t about Republican/Democrat. It’s about right versus wrong, good versus evil, freedom. Thank you.
Hey, I’m glad I brought him up, huh? That’s great. He’s a great gentleman. A great man. We’re also joined by many members of UAW Local 3303, where are you? They’ve been great. They have been great. What a group. Thank you, fellas, appreciate it. Thank you, fellas. Appreciate it very much. Great people. We have so many endorsements from so many, but we have almost every law enforcement group is endorsing us. Almost every one. We have a lot. So who’s with law enforcement tonight, law enforcement? Yep. Tremendous.
The sheriffs, Florida, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, New York’s finest endorsed, first time they’ve ever endorsed a presidential candidate, so it’s been a great. Chicago, can you imagine Chicago with the police? Police in Chicago, they’re having a hard time. They have people that won’t let them do their job. They just won’t let them do their job. When you see the New York stats go way up, Chicago go way up, and then Portland, we want to go into Portland so badly. Take out the anarchists, it would take us about 25 minutes. You saw what happened in Minneapolis, you know, after a week and a half. They could have called a little quicker, like, about an hour. But remember the CNN, look, the light always goes off whenever… Turn the light on. He’s talking about us again. It’s all right. Their ratings aren’t that good, so it’s not like you’re losing [inaudible 00:07:49].
Remember that guy, does the little shave job, right? I was thinking about doing it, but I wanted to remain your president. No, shaved head, he goes… Ali Velshi, right? Ali Velshi? I don’t even know who the hell he is, I just have a good memory. Ali Velshi. And he’s going, this is a peaceful protest. You know, he’s being hit by rocks and stuff. This is a peaceful protest, it’s wonderful to see such a peaceful protest. And then they have the camera on him, and behind, you have a city that’s burning. It’s blocks long. I’ve never seen fire like that. I always say it looked like Berlin in the worst day of the war. And he’s saying this is a peaceful protest. Well, this is a peaceful protest also.
For 47 years, Joe Biden betrayed, insulted, jailed and attacked Black Americans. He called them super predators. He used the term super predators. He’s not a good person, that I can tell you. You know, because some people knew him in prime time. This is no longer prime time, now he’s shot. Some people knew him in prime time. He’s not. And frankly, if he were, I would never say the things I say about him, but he’s not a good person.
I signed landmark criminal justice reform, and in a second term, will continue fighting for African Americans like never before. And I appreciate the support that I’m getting in the election. It’s very early, but I really appreciate it. From African Americans and from Hispanic Americans, the support has been incredible. In Florida, you have to see what’s going on. You’re going to go home, they’re trying to figure out what is going on. I never say we won Florida. I’ve never said we won anything, you know. But I’ll tell you, it’s going to be tough for them to catch us. It’s going to be very tough. We’ve had tremendous support from the Black community, from the Hispanic community. It’s been incredible. All over, all over, and we appreciate it. But when he’s calling and using terms like super predator, which is a term that you can’t use, but he used it all over the place…
To protect our security, I suspended the entry of foreign refugees from terror-afflicted nations. Biden has pledged a staggering 700% increase in refugees from the most violent terrorist hotspots anywhere on Earth. If you don’t mind, I’ll end that. And that was the deal, the manifesto that he agreed to with Bernie Sanders and AOC plus three, right? So you had Bernie Sanders… This actually took them further left. Bernie wasn’t even… A 700% increase. The Biden plan would overwhelm your communities and hospitals and open the floodgates to radical Islamic terrorism. Call France, ask them how are they doing. How are they doing? You saw what’s happened. What’s happened is a disgrace. I called the president, Macron, good, good friend of mine, great guy, and I just gave our condolences on behalf of our country. But what’s going on over there is terrible. So if you don’t mind, we’ll take a pass. Is that okay?
You know I passed the ban, right? The ban. And everybody said, oh, what a terrible thing. A lot of them said, what a terrible thing, but let’s not fight it. And we won at the Supreme Court a long time ago, and now we keep people out who can’t love our country, or people that want to hurt people. We want them out and we will keep them out. I am also keeping the terrorists and jihadists… And again, some people say that’s not politically acceptable, but whether it is or not, I have to do what’s right for our country. We are keeping them the hell out of our country.
We invested $2.5 trillion, most ever in the United States military. We’ve totally rebuilt our military. Our military was depleted. Our military was totally depleted from years of endless wars that just kept going on and on. We became the policeman of nations, and we invested 2.5. We have the finest equipment in the world. We are the envy of Russia and China and North Korea and anybody else. We have equipment, the rockets and missiles and tanks and submarines. Submarines, nobody does like we have, the submarines and all of the things that we’ve been doing and building. And our planes, you have 35 Stealth. They can’t see it. It’s hard to shoot down because you can’t see it. The enemy says, you know, we want to figure that one out, and in five years, they will.
The only thing they won’t figure out is the wall and the wheel, right? The wall and the wheel. We are doing great on that wall. It’s almost complete. That’s why you don’t hear about it anymore. And we saved a place called, I’m sure you’ve never heard of it, the Philadelphia shipyard, you know that? And Biden was shutting it down. They were shutting it down, and we said, no, thank you, we’ll keep it open. And it’s still in a good job. We also passed VA choice and VA accountability, our great vets. And we recently got a 91% approval rating from our vets. So now the vets can go online, and if they have to wait a long time to see a doctor, we have great doctors in there, but they’d have to wait two weeks, three weeks, a long time. They go out, they get a doctor, local doctor, we take care of the bill, and we take care of our great vets. We take care of our vets.
They’d been trying to get that for 44 years or something. And the accountability is where they don’t treat our… We have people that work there that don’t treat our vets with respect. They don’t treat them good. They don’t love our vets like we do. And we couldn’t do anything about it, because of unions and because of civil service and lots of other reasons, and they’ve been trying to get this for over 40 years. And now if we have somebody that doesn’t treat our vets right, if they’re sadistic, if they steal from them, if they do bad things to them, we say, Jim, sorry, you’re fired. Get the hell out of here. And we get them out.
And we terminated about 8,000 people that should have never been there, we couldn’t do anything about it. So our vets are leading a much better life. Really, it’s a tremendous thing. Not that I like firing people. I don’t like firing people, but they’re leading a much better life. They were some terrible people in there, they couldn’t do a thing about it. You couldn’t do it a thing about it. Last night, they never thought they’d get that one passed. Last night, at my direction, the United States military conducted a successful operation to rescue an American hostage kidnapped overseas. It was 96 hours, 96 hours. Our incredible people from the US special forces brilliantly executed a daring nighttime operation. They kidnapped an American in a far away land. Over the last four years, we’ve rescued over 55 hostages and detainees in more than 24 countries.
And we don’t pay. We never pay. If you pay, you’ll have thousands of people. All of a sudden you can’t pay. Now, this is sort of a lesson. We had no casualties, nobody injured, except the other side was badly injured, I’ll tell you. You have no idea. I won’t tell you how badly injured, but they kidnapped an American and they can’t do that. And I just want to thank special forces, these are really special forces, but they’re really special people. And today’s operation should serve as a stark warning to terrorists and thugs who try to kidnap our people, no matter where it may be. You cannot escape the long reach of American justice. So they did a great job. And as you know, we wiped out 100% of the-
We wiped out 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Syria in Iraq. And we killed the vicious, horrible founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. They were looking for him for 18 years. One of the first things I said is, “Find al-Baghdadi.” And they found him and they killed him. That was Conan, right? Conan the dog. Conan, who was incredible. In fact, they gave Conan far more credit than the president, but that’s okay. He deserved it. Actually.
We took out the mass murderer of US troops in many trips, in many people. The worst terrorist of them all, Soleimani is dead, Soleimani is dead. And I withdrew from last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, 150 billion. For nothing, for nothing. 1.8 billion in cash we gave them. Can you believe it? What is 1.8 billion Mike in cash? How did you let that happen, Mike? He said, “It wasn’t my fault.”
I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. they’ve been working on it for 52 years. We got it done in two hours. And instead of endless war, we’re forging peace in the Middle East. You see what’s happening? They’re all coming together. No more blood in the sand.
Biden will plunge us into one ridiculous foreign war after another. He loves the war stuff. It’s like, Hey, we want to have the greatest stuff in the world. We don’t have to fight, but if we ever fight, we only fight to win. We only fight to win. Not let’s do this. Oh, let’s not do that. No, if we fight, we fight to win.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Thank you.
USA. USA. USA.
Thank you very much.
USA. USA.
A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote to save the American dream. Very simple. And just remember the late, great Abraham Lincoln happened to be a Republican, right? Got to remember that. You got to remember that.
In conclusion over the next four… I could stay with you all night. I have to go to another part. Can you believe it? I’m going to take that chopper. We’re going to go to another part of Pennsylvania and then we’re going to have such a big day on Tuesday.
No, the fake news can’t believe it. They follow me all over the… They say, “This guy’s got a lot of energy,” I’ll tell you.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China. And we’ve already started that, long ago actually. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.
We will defend the right to life, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. Second amendment. The second amendment is under siege. Don’t worry. As long as I’m here, it’s not under siege. And you guys are right there with me. You guys are right there with me.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might. That’s what we’ve done. That’s what we’ve done. Like we’ve never had before. And we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. Starts January 1st. Bigger than healthcare, you watch. All set to go. January 1st, all signed up.
Lower drug prices, even more. Favored nations, we’re going to go from the highest to the lowest price anywhere in the world. The drug companies are not good fans of President Trump. They don’t like me. They’re taking out more ads than Sleepy Joe about me. They’re saying things about me in those ads and all I’m doing is just give me the lowest price in the world. I don’t know. They come up with things. It’s not good to do that. I don’t know to me, it’s good to do that.
And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. Very excited actually. And don’t forget, that’s on top of Space Force. With everything else we did. Space Force. We created the first new branch. 75 years, Air Force was the last one. Now we have Space Force. And we never even used to talk about that at the rallies. Right.
I’ve actually done more, I really believe that, I think I’ve done more than I promised. I may be the only politician, if you call me a politician. We’ve done more than I promised. I think that might be a first. We’ll have to check that out. Check that out for us [inaudible 00:05:47].
Space Force, we needed it. That is something, when I became president, I saw Russia, I saw China. I saw what was going on. I said, “We have to do that too.” And I got great help from the Republican Senate and from these gentlemen right here. And we actually had some bipartisan help, believe it or not, which is not easy to get.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust.
In God we trust.
At the Democrat national convention. Right. The pledge of allegiance, they took the word God out.
Boo.
And I watched it. And I said, “They must’ve made a typo.” The problem was that I heard it a second time. And I said, “That was not a typo.” And the American public went crazy. And all of a sudden they put it back, but that’s where they’re coming from. Never going to happen with me, never going to happen with these guys. Right. Never going To happen with our guys. Right fellows?
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania. It’s true. For the last four years, you’ve seen me fight for you. And now I’m relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country.
On November 3rd, we must finish the job. Have to go out and vote. Just have to go out and vote. We’re going to finish draining the swamp. It’s deeper and more vicious than anybody ever thought. Swamp creatures, yeah. It’s a great term. Swamp, you know the swamp creatures, we got them all over Washington.
Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp.
So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, grab your boss. Come on boss. And you have to get out and vote, November 3rd. On November 3rd. And you want to do that. You want to pick that… We’re so well because November 3rd, people, they just want to get out and vote. We’re going to have a historic day. I really believe that we’re going to have it. Just based on what’s going on throughout all these other states. But we win Pennsylvania, we win it all. You know that, right?
We win Pennsylvania, we win it all. If we win Pennsylvania, it’s over. Over. And I told you, Florida’s looking so good and Ohio is looking so great. They’ve always been great. They’ve always been great. They get it. For generations, America’s destiny was made forged. Hello, Fox. No, they’re very happy. I think I love them. I might as well wait till they finish up.
We love you President Trump.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
Thank you.
We love Trump. We love Trump.
Thank you.
We love Trump.
Just such a friendly group. I said and I don’t want to interrupt them. They have it. No, that was good. Thank you very much. We do appreciate it. For generations, America’s destiny was made, forged and won in places like Johnstown and Pittsburgh, Erie, Altoona, Bethlehem, and right here in Butler. True.
Yeah.
Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the skyscrapers, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism. And made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come. Truly.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. That’s what we’re doing. Ultimately, that’s what we’re doing. Right?
Thank you.
With your help, your devotion and your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again. Our great military, our great, great military. We have made America wealthy again. Your 401(k)s are doing great. Your 401(k)s. And if we could get Biden out of the way, you’ll see a stock market that goes through the roof. He’s a headwind. You know what I call him? I call him Joe Headwind. He’s a head… We get him out of the way, you’ll see a stock market that goes through the roof. It’s already. Could you imagine in the middle of a pandemic we’re doing so well?
Get him out of there.
We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you very much. Go out and vote. Thank you everybody.
Thank you very much. Thank you. What an honor. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, thank you. We love this section of the world. It’s a beautiful section. We appreciate it very much, and I’m thrilled to be back in the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, so much. Thank you.
This is the state where the story of American independence began. It’s the state where the American constitution was signed. Think of that. And three days from now, this is the state that will save the American dream. On November 3rd, we’re going to win Pennsylvania, and we’re going to win four more years in that very beautiful White House. We gather today in a very special place. In the harrowing days of December 1776, when the American revolution seemed lost, General George Washington made his headquarters as this Bucks County farmhouse to plan his famous crossing of the Delaware.
On Christmas night, he led what remained, and just very little remained, of that rag tag continental army on a daring midnight raid. It was a tough night, it was a violent night. They marched through nine miles of ice and snow, many without boots on their feet, leaving a trail of blood in their wake. At dawn, they seized victory at Trenton. Their sacrifice turned the entire tide of the war. Those soldiers came from every walk of life, but what united them all was their devotion to the principle of self-government. They were determined to live in a country where power belongs to the people. That priceless inheritance is at stake just three days from now, and a great red wave is forming. As sure as you’re there, as sure as we’re here together, and they see it. They see it at all sides, and there’s not a thing they can do about it. This is the fundamental question facing every voter in American. Do you want to be a nation ruled by the corrupt political class, or do you want to be governed by the American people? I ran for office four years ago because I could not sit by and watch any longer as a small group of Washington insiders continued to get rich bleeding America dry.
They’re just bleeding America dry. Think of it. Closing our factories, opening our borders, outsourcing our industries, and letting foreign countries ravage our middle class. Career politicians spend trillions of dollars fighting foreign wars, while letting our own cities crumble and decay. Here in Pennsylvania, you know this bitter and very painful betrayal all too well. Better than most. The corrupt Washington class launched an economic war against this state.
For decades, they targeted your steel mills, shut down your plants, and sent millions of your jobs overseas, all while lining their pockets with special interest cash, and no one embodies this betrayal and treachery more than Joe Biden. And worst of all, the suppressed media and big tech refuses to cover the crime. They refuse to cover. We’ve learnt so much over the last two weeks. For 47 years, he supported every disastrous trade deal that enriched his cronies and impoverished your state. He wiped out Pennsylvania Steel. He was the cheerleader of NAFTA, and China’s entry into the World Trade organization. Pennsylvania lost 50% of your manufacturing jobs after those Biden disastrous.
Then Biden pushed the job killing Paris Climate Accord, an economic nightmare for Pennsylvania miners and every worker in our country. He backed TPP, which would have extinguished the American auto industry forever. Forever. These betrayals not only made Biden’s donors rich, they made his family rich, and as we know, he profited from the misery of unleashed work and horror given to Pennsylvania workers. He made a lot of money, his family made a lot of money, and nobody knew about it until just recently.
At the debate, I looked at him and said, “Joe, you were here for 47 years, and you left only three and a half years ago. Why didn’t you do these things that you want done? Why didn’t you fix it, Joe?” And as you know, because I assume a number of you watched the debate … but as you know, he just looked at me and shrugged.
In fact, the anchor looked up and said, “Why did you do it?” She couldn’t believe it, and she was on his side. She said, “Why did you do it? Why did you do it and why did you say it?” In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this failed and corrupt political establishment, and you voted for an outsider’s president who is finally putting America first.
And if I don’t look like a typical politician, that’s very simple. It’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I fought harder for you than any president in the history of our country. From day one, Washington insiders have been trying to stop me because they do not own me and they do not control me.
They want control. They don’t like what I’m doing. They don’t like what I’ve said to the big pharma, the drug companies, the number one lobbyist in the world, number one lobbyist in our country. They didn’t like that I instituted Favored Nation so that we now pay the lowest prices in the world for prescription drugs, instead of the highest prices in the world.
If these corrupt forces succeed in electing Joe Biden, Washington will see to it that another outsider never becomes president again. It’ll never happen again, and nobody has done in three and a half years, nobody, no administration, no president, what we’ve done and what we’ve accomplished, and it’s not even challenged. Nobody even challenges that.
They’ll take back control and they will never, ever give it up. This once in a lifetime opportunity to beat the corrupt politicians will be lost forever, and they know it. They’re fighting so hard and they hate what they’re seeing because they’re not looking at fake suppression polls anymore. Now they’re looking at the numbers that are pouring in, and they don’t like the numbers that they’re seeing in Florida and in Ohio and in North Carolina.
And we think in Pennsylvania, although those numbers come in late. We think in Pennsylvania. They don’t like it. They don’t like it, they don’t like what they see, and I just want to tell you that we have really, things have worked out so well for our country. Nobody had any idea that anything like this could ever happen. If you look at what’s going on over the last four years, we’ve been building the biggest, strongest, and most secure middle class in human history. We built the most powerful military anywhere in the world.
And over the next four years, we will make it even stronger. Stronger like nobody thought even possible. Do not be intimidated by our opponents’ angry and menacing tone, because if we were, we would never have been able to accomplish what we’ve accomplished. In truth, they are actually terrified of you, the people. They’re terrified. They’re terrified that you will discover that you have the power to end their corrupt rule once and for all. We have to do it. When you see what’s going on, we have to do it.
We don’t have a choice. Somebody said, “Do you enjoy this?” I said, “It’s not a question of enjoyment.” Believe it or not I do. I shouldn’t. Have to go check something, but I shouldn’t. But you know, today we’re doing three rallies, tomorrow we’re doing five, and the smallest crowd will be 25,000 people. Then on Monday we’re doing five or six, and I can’t tell you what’s going to happen there, but I think we’ll just go home and rest. But they don’t get to decide this election. This is your choice.
We have to be very careful. We have to be very, very careful, especially in this state, more than any other state. They say you have to be very, very careful. What happens in Philadelphia, we have to be extremely, everybody has to watch, vigilant. Your decision, your future is at stake. As your president, I don’t answer to the special interests. I have no interest in it. I don’t take instructions from donors and lobbyists. I don’t care about them. I don’t care about them.
I don’t take my orders from the media, or as I affectionately call them, the fake news media. And as you know, they’ve turned out to be far more fake than we ever thought, and they’ve really turned out to be corrupt. They are corrupt. They are really corrupt. The word fake is not strong enough, especially after what we’ve seen where stories, major stories, the biggest story anywhere in the world, is absolutely not covered. It’s hard to have scandal when you have no coverage, and they work in conjunction with big tech, and they protect each other, and they protect the democrats, because with the democrats, you don’t have somebody up talking like I do about them, so they can do whatever they want, and this will only lead to very bad things. I do what is right for America. I do what’s right for America. It’s made me a lot of enemies in Washington but I wear their opposition as a badge of honor.
Winston Churchill once said that it was a nation that had the lion heart. I had the luck to give it the roar. I gave it the roar, and there is a roar, and people hear it all over. They heard it four years ago loud and clear. Probably the biggest thing to happen. They talk Brexit, they talk many numerous things, but this is always number one. What happened, 2016? And I will say, 2016 was an incredible earth shaking event, but 2020, and I never thought I’d say this, 2020, what we’re doing right now through Tuesday, what we’re doing is far bigger.
It’s far bigger. I never thought I’d say it. I never thought four years ago, and you never did either, somebody would say that this is going to be the most important election perhaps in the history of our country. It’s really amazing. The greatest threat to American democracy is the concentration of power among a small group of unelected special interests. The big tech CEOs who have been put in a position by us giving a law to them, Section 230. We’ve given them that power, and you know that can be taken away.
That can be taken away, and probably has to be taken away. I see it better than all. I see it so obviously. I see it because of what I do on social media. For me, it’s very easy to see. I see things that nobody would believe. The corporate media and the mega donors in Washington and Silicon Valley, they’re all lining up behind an opponent that’s going to do whatever they tell him to do. That sleepy Joe Biden. He could’ve been the greatest.
You know, if you look, we look at the amount of money that he has raised. Hundreds of millions. 300 million dollars one month. But I could’ve been the greatest of all time. I could’ve been the greatest political fundraiser, because as president all I had to do was call Wall Street, the big banks. I could’ve called the oil companies, I could’ve called all of the big companies. Every single one of them, and I know many of them would’ve given me whatever I wanted, but I chose not to do that, and we did plenty. We have plenty. You can only buy so many commercials. When the air waves are full and you can’t buy anymore, I say, “Where are we going to spend it?”
Although we did spend in our case a lot on ground game, which they, I think, forgot this part. As much money as they have, they’re screaming in Florida, “Where’s our ground game? Where’s our ground … ?” Well, it takes a long time. You know what? It took us a year and a half to build that ground game, so we’ll see how it all works out, but they didn’t do that. They decided to go a different route, but they took in massive amounts of money. I could’ve taken in much more than that.
They did 350. I could’ve done that within an hour. The president is calling. He’d like you to send 25 million dollars, please. Who’s going to tell me no? Nobody. But the problem is, the problem is when they call in six months needing a favor that’s worth billions, it’s very hard, especially me being a loyal person, not a dishonest person, but a loyal person, it’s very hard for me to say, “No, I don’t want to take his call, his or her call, no, I don’t want to do it.”
Really, you’re compromised. It would’ve compromised our nation, so I didn’t want to do that. Joe Biden works for them. I know them very well. I know them far better than he does. I know him far better than he. Some are friends. Some are actually very surprised when I say, “You don’t have to bother, don’t worry.” I don’t think we can buy anymore anyway, right? But he works for them, and when you see those numbers, 300, 350 million, so much they don’t know what to do with it, where they’re spending 25, 30 million dollars on a congressional race that used to spend 500,000 dollars, you know something’s going on, and it’s not a good thing, and it’s not the way I want to work.
This was one opportunity to do something special. This isn’t a company, this isn’t making some money. This is one opportunity to turn our country around, and we’re not going to blow it. He works for them. Not for you, and it is I who work for you. I am working for you. It’s like, not used to that, too much, but I’ve gotten used to it, and we have this great opportunity together, and our people tend to vote, in particular this state, you tend to vote on the 3rd.
I could say, “Go in and early vote, don’t wait til Tuesday, vote today, vote tomorrow, vote on Monday.” But I’m wasting a lot of time, because you want to go. It’s tradition, it’s habit. It’s the history of this state. Look at what you’ve done with this state. Look at the history of this state with respect to our country, and you want to go, I won’t even say go today, go tomorrow, go the next day, or go on the 3rd. We want election day. Thank you. Election day.
And we have others like that, too. We have others like that, too. They want election day. It’s going to be a great day. The more these corrupt forces oppose me the more I know we are delivering real change, real progress, and historic victories for the American people. We have done great things with the country including our military, our vets. The biggest tax and regulation cuts in history.
We just received a poll, this was a real poll, not a suppression poll, where the vets gave us a 91% approval rating for the job that we’re doing. Think of that. 91%. The highest ever. Over these last four years, we’ve been building the strongest and most secure middle class in-
… we’ve been building the strongest and most secure middle class in human history. We have built the most powerful military in the world by far. Nobody has ever built what we’ve built. And when I came in, we had a depleted military. We had old planes. We used to get parts by going to the airplane graveyards and taking the old parts out of old planes that were sitting there rusting of the sun. And crazy weather where they store them in the deserts. And that’s what we were doing. We had a depleted, a terribly depleted military. And now we have the best equipment anywhere in the world by far, all made in the U.S.A. And as I say, we are the envy of every world, we are the envy of every world power, from China to Russia, North Korea. They look at us and they say, “Wow, what they’ve done?” New jets, new fighter jets, bombers, tanks, missiles, rockets, nuclear. And just hope to God that we never have to use it. Hope to God we never have to use it. But it’s less likely that we’ll ever have to use it when we have it. Okay, when we have it.
We were in very bad shape militarily, a general came to see me, highly overrated general came to see me actually, one of the world’s most overrated generals. And he said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” Right at the beginning, you know what I’m talking about because we could have had conflict. He said, “Sir, could you hold it off? We have no ammunition.” And I said, “General, no president should ever hear that statement again. We have no ammunition. “Well, now we have so much ammunition. Our problem is, we have no storage. And over the next four years, we will make it even stronger, going to keep us safe. Last night, our brave special forces rescued at American hostage in a far away country.
U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
They are incredible people. And I was in Fort Bragg yesterday and I met a lot of the incredible, these incredible, talented, strong, both physically and mentally, the strongest, the best in the world. But we had a mission sent to a far away land where they kidnapped an American citizen. And the kidnappers wished they had never done it. And they went in with a large group, zero casualties. We got our American citizen, young man, we got our young man back. But the other side suffered gravely, I can tell you that. Our nation salutes its courageous military, which brilliantly executed this operation. Very few people would have been able to do it. It was very complicated and a very complex, tough area. We celebrate the safe return home of an American hostage. We’ve got many hostages home. And I pay nothing, nothing, can’t pay. Once you pay, you’ll have many, many more. We’re 40 [inaudible 00:25:48] Robert O’Brien who’s doing a tremendous job said to me, “Sir, you’re 48 and 0.” 48 and O, think of that, we’ve brought many, many of them home.
Some mostly in pretty good shape, some in very, very, bad shape. Specifically, you know who I’m talking about. Came home in very bad shape. But sometimes that happens too. But we’ve brought many home, but we don’t pay. You pay, once you pay, your numbers will go up a thousand fold. We’re boldly standing up to China. We achieved the most secure border in American history, our Southern border. We’ve obtained in just a short period of time, American energy independence. And if it were up to the opposing side, with the Green New Deal, the Green New Dealers.
Boo!
AOC plus three and you add Pelosi and Schumer, and you add Joe Biden, who really doesn’t understand so [inaudible 00:26:49]. They’ll tell him what to do and he’ll do whatever they tell them, whatever it takes, he’ll say whatever it takes. With the sunglass-, I saw the sunglasses. I said, “I don’t think I’m going to do that.” But I watched those sunglasses. I don’t know, to me it didn’t work. We’re bringing our jobs, our factories, our wealth, and our troops all back home. They’re all coming home. They’re all coming home. And instead of endless wars in countries that even you very sophisticated people in some cases have never even heard of, we’re achieving one historic peace after another, if you look.
Middle East, we already have three signed up. We have many countries who want to sign, we’re signing them rapidly. And even with Kosovo and Serbia, we’re doing a trade deal with each, a routine trade deal. When I heard about it, I said, “Wait a minute, they’ve been killing for decades. They’ve been killing and killing for decades each other, fighting all the time.” We’re doing a trade deal, they want it. They always want us, all of them want us, the whole world wants us. So we’re in a great negotiating position. But I said, “Kosovo, Serbia, we’re doing a trade deal. You tell them we’re not going to do the deal unless they make peace.” Then all of a sudden they were hugging in the Oval Office. Great, right?
And it came through common sense and it came for no money, couldn’t make a trade deal. We said, no, we’re not going to make the deal unless you two start getting … you’re killing each other for decades and decades, that’s all they do is they kill each other. And when I saw the two leaders hugging in the Oval Office and I mean, I think they were exhausted, frankly. I think it was time, it was time, but somebody had to say do it, just seemed to make a lot of sense. I said, “Wait a minute, let’s do it.” And we did it, so I’m very happy about that.
And thanks to our administration’s unprecedented mobilization. We’re now just weeks away from a mass distributing of a safe vaccine. We’ve got it, we’ve get great companies, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer, all with a vaccine. All with a different, little different versions of it, some similar, some similar concepts. And many other companies and we’re ready, we’ll have that, and we will have it. But even if you didn’t, and I say, it drives them crazy. We’re rounding the turn, we’re rounding that turn, we’re rounding it. And our economy went down less than any economy anywhere in the world. And it went up faster by far. They keep hearing about Europe, Europe, Europe, well, they’re not doing nearly as well. Seniors will be first in line for the vaccine. And the vaccine will be free because it’s not their fault. It was China’s fault. China did this to us. And our vaccine will eradicate the virus and end the pandemic once and for all. Americans will return to school and to life.
By slashing red tape and cutting bureaucracy, we’re producing this vaccine in record time. If Joe Biden were president, you wouldn’t have this vaccine for four years. And he had his chance with the H1N1, he calls it in reverse, swine flu, which was a disaster. We’ve moved heaven and earth to produce the vaccine ahead of schedule and manufacture hundreds of millions of doses in advance, all ready to be shipped. And we have our military is going to be shipping it. Logistics, we have a general, that’s what he does. He delivers troops. He said, “Sir, this is easy. We’ll get it done very quickly.” It’s the most advanced medical operation anywhere in the world and in history. Thanks to the therapies we’ve accelerated, we have already reduced the mortality rate. 85%, think of the that, down 85%.
And our excess mortality rate is 40% lower than Europe’s. And Europe has done a good job, it’s a very brutal thing. Everyone thought Germany was doing great, great, great, great, they’re not doing great. Right now you see what’s going on over there with France, again, Spain and Italy. But we’re doing great, but we just don’t get credit for it. We don’t get credit. And I don’t want the credit personally, but I want the generals and the admirals, and our great Vice President Mike Pence, who worked so hard. All of the people on the task force and Jared Kushner, what he did, he’s here someplace. But he was fantastic on the ventilators. Ventilators are very, very complex.
Oh, look at that, Jared, and he wants no praise, he couldn’t care less. He truly couldn’t care. Thank you, Jared. No, we had a tremendous … just a quick story, we had a tremendous ventilator problem because we weren’t equipped for a thing like this. This is once in 100 years, 1918, we’re talking about, the Spanish Flu. And we weren’t equipped for that. And all of a sudden we’re getting calls. We need 40,000 ventilators. Like in New York, they needed far less than that, but they needed many, many ventilators. And other states are calling, we need ventilators. And it’s a very complicated piece of equipment, as you can imagine with pipes going down, heavily computerized. And people didn’t know what to do, making them on a mass scale like this, hospitals had very few of them.
And Jared called up some of his genius friends, his brother is one of the most important people in Silicon Valley, smart family. They called up and they had these super brilliant young men come in. I mean, some of them were wearing undershirts, they were wearing a [inaudible 00:33:26]. They’re wearing a baseball cap. “How much are you worth?” “About a billion dollars, sir.” They had founded companies, sold their companies, but they were brilliant. One of them had roller skates on and they wanted to throw him out of the White House. They said, “Sir, there’s a kid here, undershirt and rollerskates.” I said, “Yeah, he’s worth two and half billion dollars.” But Jared called a whole group of people down. And to them, to us, to all of us, a ventilator is very complicated. To them it’s like the simplest machine they’ve ever seen.
And they went to the automobile companies where they had excess plant capacity. And they went to various companies. And we started producing within a short period of time, ventilators. And this story is just never told, and I don’t think I’ve ever told it, not in this detail. We started producing ventilators in a short period of time at a level that nobody thought was … thousands and thousands … nobody thought was even possible. And in a relatively short period of time, after that, all of our hospitals were sent tens of thousands of ventilators, tens of thousands of ventilators. Great companies, very big companies, the car companies, very big companies. They did a fantastic job. They’d line up with a small ventilator company, and we make the best ventilators, I mean, they say they’re the best.
And they were sent all over our country. And think of it, and that was done so quickly. But these brilliant young people were able to do it. Regular people could … I mean, you could never do a thing like this. So we made thousands a month and not one person, think of this, in our country, not one person who needed a ventilator didn’t get a ventilator, how incredible is that? But they won’t tell that story. That’s not me, that’s Jared and a whole group of very brilliant people, together with the military and with a lot of great companies. We’ve had a tremendous relationship. It’s the biggest mobilization since World War II. And it was an incredible job. Now what we’re doing is we’re making … we continue to make thousands a month and we’re sending them to foreign countries who were desperate for ventilators. And would have no idea, there would be no way they could ever get them.
Including, I mean, we sent them to France and we sent them to Spain, and Italy, but we send them to countries in Africa, who are really having a terrible hard time. And we’re sending thousands of them to other countries. And I just think it’s a tremendous story. And it’s something that we did that we’re very proud of. And I did something that nobody talks about. You don’t hear about … you don’t hear the word ventilators anymore. You know why you don’t hear about it because we solved … There was a period of time, ventilators, for three, four or five weeks until they sent these super geniuses in. For three, four, five weeks, all you’ve heard about was ventilators, ventilators, ventilators. Well, we took over something, the cupboards were bare. They were bare, or essentially bare, but they were bare. And the hospitals in the states, the cupboards were bare too. Nobody was prepared for a thing like this. That could have been, they should have been.
But now all over the world we’re sending them and I think it’s just a tremendous story, I really do. It’s a story that’s untold, you’ll probably never hear that again. And as soon as we started making all of these thousands of ventilators, you haven’t heard the word ventilator just like … and there’s one other quick story. The wall, the wall, the wall, that’s all you heard. Trump promised the wall, will he ever give the wall? The wall, the wall. And then now the wall is going to be completed very quickly. We have over 400 miles of wall built. And now you never hear the word wall. They never say, “Oh, he got the wall, he did it.” And we built it exactly to the specifications of the border patrol. And they were tough specs, I will tell you. I said, “How about concrete plank?” “No, sir, we need steel, we need rebar and we also need concrete.” “Oh, that’s great.” But we got it built and they have to have vision. They have to have slats because they have to be able to see through what’s on the other side.
You can’t have … once you realize this, I mean, they’re right. So we built it to those specs. Very, very … they’ve done an incredible job. We’re doing 10 miles a week. We’ll be finished very soon. But you never hear about the wall anymore. Now if it was a failure, if we couldn’t get it done, it would be brutal. It would be a brutal time for your president. Because of our relentless efforts, the recovery rate right now on COVID or the China virus or the China plague is 99.7%, think of that, 99.7%. And I’m here, I’m here, right? I’m here. And these two great people whose property we’re using today, what a historic property. And all I know is they said … we just drove up the road, they’ve been here a long time, but not as long as George Washington, right, but they’ve been here a long time. And they said, and you’ve probably many of you said, do you see the crowds along … It looks at Broadway, except a slightly more picturesque, slightly more picturesque. But it’s thousands and thousands of people lined all the way down to the highways, it’s incredible, and they’re all waving flags.
Most importantly, they’re all waving flags and they’re proud of our nation. And I guess it has something to do with Pennsylvania. I’m going to be here all day today. But no, it’s a beautiful site and they were very proud, and thank you very much for everything you’ve done. We’re allowing younger, healthier Americans to resume normal activities while strongly protecting the elderly and those at high risk. And we’re making the powerful antibody treatment that I received available to anybody that needs it, free, free. Wasn’t their fault. But I had that and I didn’t feel good. I said, “What’s going on?” And test positive, and I’m the President of the United States, I couldn’t bury myself in a basement of the White House as nice as it is. I actually got to see it one time, it’s very nice.
Like you would expect, it’s a beautiful basement, it’s in the White House. It’s a very solid basement. But I couldn’t do that. And I couldn’t put myself in a beautiful room upstairs, beautiful bedroom, and stay there for a year and a half. I’m the President. And I go to meetings, I’d say “That’s a lot of people.” And then one day that happens. And I said I wasn’t feeling good. And the doctor came in and … great doctors, great White House doctors, Sean. They came in and they said, “Sir, you’ve tested positive.” I said, “Tested positive for what? And they said, “For COVID, for COVID.” He actually used the term COVID, he’s more politically correct than I am. I said, “That’s not good.” But I didn’t feel good and we went over to Walter Reed Medical Center, which is phenomenal. I see the work they’re doing, young men coming back so badly, and women, so badly wounded.
I see what they can do, what they can do and nobody can do what they can do. And Johns Hopkins was great. We had a lot of doctors gathered around. But I didn’t feel good and they gave me something, Regeneron, and Eli Lilly makes a very similar kind of a thing. The concept is based on antibodies. And I woke up the next morning and I felt so great, I wanted to rip that Superman shirt open. I wanted to come back. I wanted to start doing a new trade deal and campaigning simultaneously. They said, “Sir, how about taking it easy for a couple of days?” But no, it’s incredible. What we’ve been able to do is … and I don’t even know. Maybe now I’m saying, well, it probably wasn’t the drug, it’s just that I’m in such perfect physical condition. And I’m very young, if you’re young, so I said that.
And CNN got very upset [inaudible 00:42:10]. Their camera just went off, the light. They got upset. They said, “He is not young and he’s not in perfect shape.” I said, “I’m a great physical specimen.” They didn’t like it when I said that. They don’t like those kind of things. No, but I don’t know, maybe I helped, I don’t know. But I can tell you it’s incredible what they’ve been able to do. And I think it did help a lot, frankly, because I got out of there fast. I could have gotten out a lot sooner too. I wanted to go out almost immediately. They said, “Nice and easy, please, sir.” But shows you, maybe I serve as an example, First Lady got it also and she’s better. She’s perfect. And Barron Trump, right? Barron, Barron got it. My young boy, he’s 14 years old, my young, tall boy, I say, he’s very tall. He’s a good guy, good-looking guy and strong. So he has it. They say, “Sir, Barron tested positive also.” I said, “Wow.
Then I go, this was at the beginning, I go, I say to the doctor, like 12 minutes later, “Doctor, how’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay, sir, he sloughed it off.” You know why, they’re young and their immune system works. That’s why I say, get back to school, get back to school. Get back to school, open up this state, Governor, open up this state. And don’t take advantage of those ballots, Governor, don’t do it, don’t do it. We will terminate the virus with science, medicine and-
We will terminate the virus with science, medicine, and groundbreaking therapies and cures. I watched Joe Biden speak yesterday. All he does is talk about COVID, COVID. He’s got nothing else to say, “COVID, COVID, COVID.” We agree. It’s serious and we’ve done an incredible job. And at some point, they’re going to recognize that. I said we’ve done an A+ job, but I give ourselves a D or maybe an F in terms of public relations, but now I’ll start talking about it a little bit.
When Joe Biden was Vice President, his failed approach on the swine flu was, as I said, a total disaster and his chief of staff said that he had no idea what he was doing. I don’t know why this guy said this. And now, they’re thinking about bringing him into the administration. I guess, probably this is maybe before the flu came along or something because I’m saying, “Why would he say this?” He goes, quote, “We did every possible thing wrong and 60 million Americans got H1N1,” far less lethal, by the way, far less lethal. “And in that period of time, and it’s just purely fortuitous that this isn’t one of the great mass casualty events in American history.” This is Biden’s chief of staff. Think of what he said. Where did this guy come? You’re going to bring him back? It had nothing to do with anything we did. We didn’t do anything right.
Now, think of this. And then he’s saying, “We want to take over what you’re doing.” Right? He says, “We want to take over.” Remember he said, when he first started running, that I did a poor job because I didn’t act fast enough. I acted in January. We had almost no deaths. Think of this. And I said, “China is heavily infected. They can’t come in.” And I went up against Dr. Fauci and others that said, “No, no. You shouldn’t do this. You shouldn’t do it.” I said, “Listen, they’re infected, heavily infected. Let’s close off China.” So I did that. I closed off Europe. I did that and, Fauci will tell you, saved tens of thousands of lives. Much more than that.
And then when you think, okay, we saved thousands and thousands of lives and then Biden is campaigning. And he was two and a half months later, he said, “We have to get tough,” and he called me xenophobic because I closed. Two and a half months later, then he runs and he said, “He should’ve closed the country earlier.” I said, “I don’t think he’s going to get away with that.” And let’s see what happens on November 3rd because, if something happens that’s wrong where he did, then he did get away with that. Now, here’s a guy, not the smartest guy out there and he never was, but now in particular he’s not doing so well, but here’s somebody that says that I didn’t act early enough and, for two and a half months, he was scolding everybody saying that they shouldn’t have closed off China, they shouldn’t have done and that nothing bad is going to happen.
But remember the statement from his … That was his chief of staff made that statement. We mourn for every life lost to the China virus and in their memory and their sacred memory. We truly do. We mourn. It should’ve never happened. We will defeat the virus and emerge stronger and more unified than ever before. That’s all we can say. We’re going to be more unified than ever before. Our economy is now surging back faster, better, bigger, and stronger than any nation on earth. We just had the best quarter of economic growth ever recorded, by more than double. A 33.1% increase, more than our great number from 1952. That was the number we [inaudible 00:47:59] but more than double. And you know what? The press is refusing to talk about it. It’s not even a major story.
One of the analysts said today it was the greatest economic number that they have ever seen. GDP up 33.1%. That means it grew 33 … in a quarter. And the press barely mentions it, not even on the front page of newspapers because that’s the game they play. It’s suppression. That’s why we have to win. We can’t let them do this. We have to win. This was according to a certain very important person, Larry Kudlow, who’s a terrific guy and other people. Sir, this is the greatest financial number probably ever recorded in our country. Think of that. That’s a big statement. And double, more than double a number from 1952 and it’s barely covered. And that’s only for one reason; because they want us to do very poorly on November 3rd. They don’t want to tell the American public about this.
The one advantage I do have is I do have a way of getting the word out, but it’s very tough when they pick it up. Even this, they won’t pick this up. I made a statement, strong statement. They won’t pick it up because it’s good news. They’ll fabricate stories. They’ll make up false stories. They’ll put you number one on Twitter all the time, stories that aren’t trending. These stories are so boring. They’ll make up … The Times will write false stories all the time, and yet they won’t talk about the Biden corruption. They won’t talk about where’s Hunter and they won’t talk about … Don’t feel bad. The cameras are all off. Don’t worry. We just lost the last camera. I’m sorry.
But they won’t talk about the fact that Hunter got $183,000 a month to sit on a board of Burisma and got perhaps $3 million up front, who had no job, who had no experience in energy. They won’t talk about the fact that the wife of the Mayor of Moscow gave him $3.5 million. For what? They won’t talk about the fact that the father went to China and Air Force to … where’s Hunter? Where’s [inaudible 00:50:24]? I put his first name, his real first name is Where. We’re going to make it Where. Where’s Hunter was with him. And in 10 minutes, he walked out with $1.5 billion to manage, which is millions of dollars in fees, millions and millions.
And they won’t talk about the fact that he was going for the big one next when China asked for $10 million a year for introductory purpose. In other words, he was going to introduce people $10 million a year. This is a payoff. That’s all it is. And they won’t talk about the fact that the father was the big guy. To me, he’s not a big guy. Little guy. He’s very slight. Remember when he said a year ago, he said, “I’d like to take him to the back of the barn?” I went like this. I’ll take him to the back of the barn. The glasses. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country, if we don’t raise taxes. If Joe Biden is elected, he will delay the vaccine, prolong the pandemic, close down schools and impose a nationwide lockdown. That’s what they’re talking … Can you imagine going … And we’re making the greatest comeback of any country by far and they’re actually talking … He’s talking about a lockdown. He has no clue, but he’s talking about it. That’s his only plan, to make you a prisoner in your home, a prisoner in your own country and, under the Biden lockdown, the recovery will be totally killed. The economy will crash. The country can’t afford it. The people can’t afford it, but country can’t. Can you imagine? I mean, your state has to open up, too.
All Democrat governors, you, Michigan, North Carolina, they’re all Democrat governors and they’re probably doing it because they want to affect the election. They’re probably doing it, by November 4th, they’ll announce, “We’ve decided to open up Pennsylvania. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania will be opened on November 4th.” No, because they can’t be so stupid, what they’re doing to people. And the countless people that will die from depression and drug overdoses and suicide and abuse and, really, a deferral of medical care. There’ll be no school. There’ll be no graduations. There’ll be no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmas, no Easters, no Fourth of Julys. There’ll be nothing.
No thanks.
We’ll be nothing. And one thing we’ve learned very recently, everyone likes the computers and the laptop and, oh, we can learn from the computer. You don’t have to go. Well, now we’ve given it the all-time mass test. A child being in a classroom or, if you’re older, a campus, even a college campus, but a child being in a classroom cannot be replaced by a computer. It can’t. It doesn’t work. It’s no good. And they’re losing potentially years out of their life and it’s the important years. It’s the development years, but the computers don’t work. They’re okay, but they’re a small percentage and that’s come out loud and clear.
Telehealth, great. It’s been incredible. I think it’s a 7,000% increase and telehealth has been really great. It’s going to have a great future, but not education. They have to be in their classroom with other students and they have to find their way in life. And this is no future for what they’re doing in Pennsylvania, what they’re doing in other states. This is no future for American youth. It’s going to have a longterm impact on them. Biden’s plan will destroy America. My plan will destroy the virus and make America greater than it’s ever been.
And the skyrocketing cases in Europe have shown Draconian lockdowns, and that’s what they are, they’re Draconian, do not stop the virus. They’ve done it. Italy was so locked down now. It’s starting all over again. They just don’t. It’s a terrible thing that was unleashed on us and we should never forget what happened. We should never, ever forget that China could’ve stopped it. They stopped it from going into the rest of China, but not from going to Europe, the United States, and the rest of the world. We can never forget it, but the far left is determined to lock down America because what they crave more than anything else is power and control over you.
Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain. In exchange for his party’s nomination, he has surrendered his party to the radical socialist left-wing extremists, anarchists, looters. Today’s left tolerates no challenge and allows no descent. You see that. They have them locked down. That’s the ultimate lockdown. You can do horrible things or you can do nothing wrong and they’ll put in stories. I’m actually a victim of the opposite. I’m just thinking about when I’m talking to you. They do phony stories that are totally false and they’ll put them up and there’s nothing you can do. There’s nothing you can do except explain it away. If you disagree with them, they try to humiliate you, smear you, and cancel you, cancel culture. Right?
They control Joe Biden, and he’s so easy to control, just like they control every Democrat house member and every senator. They purge newsrooms of reporters who do not swear allegiance to their false narratives. You’ve seen some reporters are extremely upset. They end up getting absolutely decimated. They censor stories that reveal the corruption of their chosen candidate. This is what’s happened now and nobody’s ever seen anything like it. Everybody knows that it’s … It’s incredible. Nobody’s seen anything like it.
You don’t read anything. You go to the Times, there’s no story in it. You go to the Washington Post, you go to ABC, you go to NBC, the worst of all in my opinion, NBC. The home of the Apprentice. Made them a lot of money over the years, but they were bad. They were very bad. CBS has been terrible. CNN is just absolutely ridiculous. Thank goodness they have lousy ratings. Thank goodness. And I call it MSDNC. What they do is just absolutely … It’s not even thinkable. It’s not even to be believed. They totally close it down and you can’t have scandal when nobody’s reporting about it. And the level of power is pretty incredible.
And I heard this four years ago, “Sir, you cannot compete with big tech. You cannot compete.” The networks were against us. It was the same group. And then I won. I said, “See, they’re not very powerful?” But you know what? They are. And now they’re at a level that nobody’s ever seen before and they’re blatant about it. Now they just say, “We’re doing it.” New York Times, they apologized to their subscribers because they were losing, after the last election, tens of thousands of subscribers and they wrote a letter of apology. I couldn’t believe it. And they really got good for about two weeks and then they got worse than ever. I mean, it’s every day, a phony story, after story, after story.
They have a story about taxes. I don’t pay taxes. And I just call my people, “What [inaudible 00:58:33]?” “Oh, no. You’ve paid many, many millions of taxes, sir, but you prepay your taxes.” “Oh. Well, why aren’t they mentioning it?” I prepaid millions and millions of dollars of tax. I prepaid. That’s worse than paying taxes. I’m prepaying. I say, “Why do we prepay so much?” Because these are estimates when you’re negotiating taxes. These are estimates. You’re prepaying estimates. How much? Many millions of dollars, millions and millions, but they don’t do that. We call them, we tell them and they say, “Well, that’s prepaying.” Well, prepaid is worse than … right? I mean, how good is that? We’re prepaying, but they don’t put that in the story.
These are very corrupt, very dishonest people. They tell you that writers are peaceful protestors because you’re not allowed to have … I had it yesterday in Minnesota where we were going to have over 25,000 people. And the Governor of Minnesota, radical left Democrat and the Attorney General, they said, “No, the most you can have is 250 people.” To my people they said that. And so my people said, “So we’re going to close it down.” We had thousands of people. I don’t know. You probably all saw it last night. We had tens of thousands. We were going to have 25,000, 30,000 people.
And don’t forget, they’ve done a terrible job in Minnesota where they let Minneapolis burn down. And they could’ve called us a lot sooner. We went in. Took us about, what, 25 minutes to solve the problem? No, we could’ve gone in there. We were willing. We called them. We were willing to go there immediately instead of having everybody running away. And they have a very good police … or they had a very good police force, but they don’t let them do what they have to do. And they shut it down. They said, “No, you can’t have 25,000, but you can have 250 people.” And I said to my people, “No, let’s go. Let’s speak in front of the 250.” What I didn’t know is that thousands of people were going, anyway. They just went.
And I think that, had I done a regular rally with … because we’re getting 25,000, 30,000 people. We’re getting much more than that in some. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this. Laura Ingraham had a show last night. She said, “I’ve worked for everybody. I’ve worked for Reagan and nobody’s ever seen anything like what’s happening.” It’s a great thing. It’s an incredible thing. This is supposed to be a little special speech, but you’ve never seen anything like this. Nobody’s ever seen it. And what happened is, I think because of what they did when they said, “We’re going to silence his voice,” it turned out to be a much bigger voice, and I think we now are going to … 1972, Minnesota hasn’t been won.
Between Omar, Ilhan Omar, who comes from Minnesota … I think Omar, a couple of other things, the riots, but I think what happened is they made this into a massive event and people are tired of it. And I think we will win Minnesota. We were very close last time. And we should win it, when they let Minneapolis burn. We should win it, but I think we’re going to win it. And again, 1972 was the last time. Can you believe that? I think we’re going to do it. We’ll find out. You’re going to know in about … Well, I hope, based on the Supreme Court, they don’t delay it too long, this decision yesterday. I will tell you, it was not a good decision. You’re allowed to wait days to count and days to have the final count? You’re allowed to have time limits beyond November 3rd? So what does this mean? The whole world and our nation is going to be waiting, and waiting, and waiting to hear who won?
[inaudible 01:02:13].
You’re going to be waiting for weeks? And a very dangerous thing happens. November 3rd and now you have to wait and wait. And very bad things can happen with ballots during that period of November 3rd to whatever date they gave them. Many, many days. So you’re going to be watching on November 3rd. I think it’s highly likely you’re not going to have a decision because Pennsylvania’s very big and, as you know, there was another state, but perhaps other states involved. This is a terrible thing that they’ve done to our country.
[inaudible 01:02:49].
And that’s the United States Supreme Court I’m talking about. That is a terrible, political, horrible decision that they made. We’re going to be waiting. November 3rd is going to come and go and we’re not going to know. And you’re going to have bedlam in our country and you’re going to have this period of nine days or seven days or whatever it is. And many bad things … Ballots are going to be … “Oh, we just found 10,000 ballots.” “Oh, that’s good.” “We just found another 10,000.” This is a horrible thing that the United States Supreme Court has done to our country. And I say it and I say it loud and I say it proud. We have to know who won. We have to know who won. They tell you the police officers are villains. This is the group. And they’re heroes. No. These even tell you that your children must be indoctrinated to believe that the heroes who crossed the Delaware were driven by hatred and malice. They change your history. A vote for Joe Biden is a vote to give this radical movement absolute power and unchecked control over every aspect of American life. Joe Biden, who’s not … he’s not all there. You should get a little bit of a larger frame, don’t you think? No, there. I know those glasses. You’ve got to get a little … I’ll tell him. He doesn’t want to have people look at that surgery on the eyes. It didn’t work out.
Joe Biden and the socialist left are absolutely convinced of their own moral superiority. I don’t know if he is, but they are. He isn’t. Look, let’s face it. He’s shot. Same [inaudible 01:04:46]. Who said that? Who is that? That was exact timing, right? You copied me from another [inaudible 01:04:56]. While their agenda devastates the poor and … The American middle class will be devastated. They support crippling shutdowns that crush the blue collar jobs while they stay home and work. They close down your schools, your children while they hire private tutors for their children. They ban you from going to church while they let left-wing extremists burn down your church. You can only meet if it’s a protest. So you know what we do? Even in this [inaudible 01:05:32]. I call this a protest. Otherwise, they don’t let you meet. You can’t go to church, right? You can’t go to church. What they’re doing to our churches and our synagogues and all of that is just terrible. You see what’s going on. Even when the church wants to go into a field and stay apart, they say, “No, you can’t do that.” It’s a terrible thing. They lecture you on the need for open borders that flood your cities with illegal drugs and gangs while they, themselves …
Borders that flood your cities with illegal drugs and gangs while they themselves live in walled-off compounds. They want to defund your police and confiscate your guns simultaneously, while they themselves are protected with armed guards. No, we will protect your second amendment 100%.
There is only one way to preserve, protect, and defend the American way of life. You must show up on November 3rd, okay? Don’t worry about the first or second, because I know you too well. The Biden/Harris economic policies of increasing taxes and regulations, biggest tax increase in the history of our country is what they’re proposing. Would pulverize our middle-class. Their plan is projected to hammer the typical American family’s income by over $6,500 a year in the Wall Street Journal. By contrast, I cut taxes and regulations at a level nobody’s ever done before, and raised middle-class families incomes’ over $6,000 in just three short years. And that’s not including energy, which is a tremendous, what we’ve done with energy is tremendous. Joe Biden has pledged a $4 trillion tax hike, socialized medicine, an avalanche of job killing regulations, a return to globalist trade deals. And he vowed the total destruction of the Pennsylvania oil industry and fracking, fracking has gone. Fracking is gone. Man. He said that loud and clear for a year until he realized that he has to win in Pennsylvania. But fracking is dead because they’re side it’s dead.
You saw AOC go out and say, no, no, no, you can’t say that when Biden switched and he never had one question from the press, how could you say it for a year, and then all of a sudden switch when you walk into Pennsylvania. Now, fracking would be dead. Joe Biden’s plan to abolish American energy is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania. A vote for Biden is a vote to ban fracking and to send your state into a nightmare of poverty and depression, that’s what’s going to happen. It’s your single biggest industry by far, probably a million jobs one way or the other and what it would do to our country because our country has low energy costs. You and Texas and others. Think of Texas. He’s running in Texas. We’re doing very well in Texas, but if you believe the fake news, they’ll tell you, “Oh, it’s very close.” It’s not close at all. And it wasn’t close four years ago. Think of Texas. It’s very close.
He’s against oil, he’s against guns, and he’s against religion. And then they say, “Texas is very close.” Think of that, right? He’s against oil, guns, and God, Texas is very close, too close to call. I don’t think so. I think Texas, Texas is going to be very strong for us. Can you imagine going into Texas, say we’re going to take your guns away, and by the way, we’re going to close up every oil well that you have. Vote for me, vote for Joe. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. If Biden wins, there will be no fracking, no oil, no natural gas, no jobs, and no future. Under Biden, gas prices will explode, family incomes will plummet, and the fracking industry will be outlawed forever. Forever. With your vote, I will cut middle-class taxes even more. I mean, we cut them at the highest level in the history of our country, even more, and you saw what it did. That’s why we’re coming back so quick, because we have a strong foundation, a base.
And I will always defend and promote Pennsylvania energy. And there will be no more lockdowns. We’re not going to have lockdowns. We will never lock down again. Joe Biden would appoint the most radical left wing cabinet in history. Beto O’Rourke will be in charge of gun confiscation. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren will be in charge of the United States Treasury, according to what they say. AOC plus three will run the climate policy. I wonder if she ever even took a course in climate? I don’t think so, I didn’t say it, you did. This can only happen in Pennsylvania. Don’t forget, I went to school here. He likes to throw around the Pennsylvania thing. Look at it differently. He abandoned Pennsylvania. He went to Delaware, but I’m not blaming. He was nine years old or something, you can’t blame him for that, right?
But he left Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania as you know. Representative Ilhan Omar will be running Homeland Security. How do you like that? Who knows? I just said that one, but you know what? I wouldn’t be surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, we’re pleased to announce Ilhan Omar to run national security. She’s going to run. She’s going to be guarding our border, where we just had the best numbers we’ve ever had by the way. People can come into our country, we want them to come in. They have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit.
Just imagine the insanity that will ensue. If Pelosi is speaker, Schumer is, Crying Chuck, majority leader. Kamala Harris, she makes Bernie Sanders look like a very strict conservative. Kamala, got to say the name exactly right or they excoriate you. So you have Kamala running the White House. Well, she already said that, right? She said that it’s the Harris/Biden. He actually said that, that was scary. He said under the Harris, I never did that. I never said under the Pence/Trump administration. And I love Mike Pence. You know what? But I said, “Mike, that far we can’t go.” But he said, he may never say, he also said he’s running for the US Senate two or three times. He said, “I’m a proud Democrat.” This is like three, four times. “I’m a proud Democrat running for the US Senate.” And we said, “No, Joe, you’re running for president.” “Oh, okay.”
Is this whole thing, I mean, can you believe that, this could only happen to me. And how are you doing? We’re tied. We’re tied? How can I be tied? We’re tied. He said four times. The other thing he does badly, haven’t done it yet, I hope I never do, but he’ll be making a speech in Ohio, ladies and gentlemen of Iowa, it’s proud to be. The worst is when he’s making one in Miami with the palm trees. The beautiful palm trees. “Ladies and gentlemen of Ohio.” He’s made that many times. And you know what I always say? Winston Churchill was a great, great order, right? Amazing orator, amazingly, because he was a stutterer in his life. He was a stutter and became a great orator. You could give a speech equal to the best that he’s ever made. And if you made the mistake in saying welcome, like we’re in Pennsylvania, it’s great to be in New York. It doesn’t matter how good your speech is, it’s over. Just walk off, it’s over. But he does it all the time, and nobody even says it. No, he is shot.
Under my leadership, we achieved. And he’s not a nice person. You know what? If he were a nice person, they do commercials on me that are so false. Like with the soldiers, that’s the biggest insult to me of any thing that’s probably ever happened, like with the soldiers and other things. This so falls based on a phony magazine, an Obama type magazine, that’s doing badly. They did a commercial, and we notified them. And we had 26 witnesses, real witnesses. And every one of them is furious, but he’s not a nice person. So because he’s not a nice person, I don’t mind saying exactly what I’m saying, which as you know is the truth. He was never considered smart in his prime, but now he’s really off. And you can’t have him as your president because he’ll destroy our country. He’ll destroy our country. And it probably won’t be him because by the time he gets sworn in, he’ll be pretty much like it’ll be over.
25th Amendment. Do you think they were talking about me? No, they weren’t talking about me. When she brought that up, they’re talking about how to get Kamala in there as fast as possible. And nobody treated him worse than her. If you looked the debate, Kamala was failing fast, she was going down like a rock. Normally you pick somebody that’s going up. She didn’t even make it to Iowa, right? Nobody spoke worse about him, and that’s the one that they pick, but they want to get the radical left. They’d love to get her in. And that will be a very, I don’t know. I don’t know if you can never come back from a thing like that.
I’m not sure that a country, you look at Venezuela, you look at what’s going on, where it was the richest, it was so great 20 years ago. Now, they don’t have food. They don’t have water. They don’t have medicine. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in American history, the wall. Biden’s planned to admit unlimited low wage foreign workers will slash incomes, surge unemployment, and devastate the middle class, all to enrich the globalist donors. As president, my only special interest is you. That is true. My only special interest. To protect our national security, I also suspended the entry of refugees from foreign nations compromised by terrorism, just call up President Macron as I do often, and ask him what’s happening over there? You saw those horrible attacks this last week, more than one. We’re keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, if I have your approval.
Biden has pledged a staggering 700% increase in refugees. This is a deal made between Biden and Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie, the manifesto we call it. There’s a document, a very thick document, naming things that they’re all horrible, but they’ve agreed. 700% increase in refugees from the most dangerous and violent terrorist hotspots anywhere on Earth, including Syria, Somalia, and Yemen. These are some of the most dangerous places in the world. 700% increase. This is agreed to. This isn’t like, oh, this is talk. This is a manifesto. It’s a document.
He’s also vowed to terminate our national security travel bans, allowing for unlimited migration from war zones and terrorist havens. Biden’s extreme migration policies will open the flood gates to terrorists, jihadists and violent extremists. You don’t have to worry about it, just get out and vote on November 3rd. Under my administration, I had the ban passed, right? And it was approved by the United States Supreme Court. There, they did the right thing. Under my administration, the safest of our families will always come first. That safety, we want safety, has to come first. The Secretary of Defense under President Obama, Robert Gates, said that Joe Biden has been on the wrong side of every foreign policy issue in his lifetime.
President Obama used to say that if you wanted something really screwed up, give it to Joe Biden to handle. This is the guy that we have running. In fact, Obama tried to keep Joe from running. He was very famously quoted as saying, “Joe, you don’t have to do this. You don’t have to do this, Joe, don’t do it. You don’t have to do this.” I could see that. And then wouldn’t endorse him until long after the primaries had ended and Joe has lost. Think of it. He wouldn’t endorse him. He was a vice president, wouldn’t endorse him. Made all these terrible statements, wouldn’t endorse him. And then even after he won, it was months before he endorsed him, because he didn’t want to see it happen. I think he’s probably the most surprised person on Earth, Obama. And they said, “Sir, Obama’s going to start campaigning for him,” a couple of days ago. I said, “That’s okay. That’s good. He campaigned for Hillary. How did that work out?”
And his crowds are extraordinarily small, just so you understand. They’re not big. They’re like 22 people, 18 people. For months, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have been inciting violence against police officers and riots, like those carried out by Biden supporters in Philadelphia. Look at what’s going on in Philadelphia. They should call us into Philadelphia. We’ll solve the problem, or let their police handle the problem. Let their police handle the problem. If elected, the Democrat ticket will pass legislation to end cash bail, create sanctuary cities nationwide, and defund police departments all across America. In a second term, we will increase funding for law enforcement. We will hire more tough one crime prosecutors to put violent offenders behind bars.
For 47 years, Joe Biden betrayed African Americans at every turn. He took your votes. He took you for granted, and then he shipped away your jobs and flooded your cities with cheap foreign labor. He devastated black families with his 1994 crime bill that really locked up tens of thousands of African-American men with unfair sentencing. And he called African American young men, super predators all the time. He would say super predators, a name that has always been something, there has been no name that they’ve hated more. They hated it with Hillary Clinton and they hate it with Joe Biden. Super predator, the term super predator. That was his term. He forged close relationships with pro segregation lawmakers and his trade deals decimated the black middle class. Joe Biden cares more about refugees living thousands of miles away that he does about Black Americans living in Philadelphia, Milwaukee, Detroit, Baltimore, Oakland. He’s done nothing. And then he says to me, “Oh, we should do this.” I said, “Joe, again, always, so easy.” 47 years. But he left. It was only three and a half years ago. So this wasn’t a long time ago.
I reversed the injustice of Biden’s crime bill by signing landmark criminal justice reform, prison reform. And under our recently announced platinum plan, we will create three million new jobs for Black Americans, increase access to capital, restore safety to every neighborhood. And we will deliver school choice to every parent in America.
And I’m also fighting every day for Hispanic Americans. This week, I announced our American Dream Plan, and we’re doing very well with Hispanic Americans. You see that? They’re saying, “What’s going on in Florida, right?” They like me and I like them. And we’re doing very well with the Black community. They like me now, they’re getting to know me better, but I’ve always liked them. The American Dream Plan, which creates over a half a million new Hispanic owned small businesses and jobs and going to be fantastic for our Hispanic Americans, great people.
My administration is also standing proudly with the people of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela, and their righteous fight for freedom. Biden sided with the brutal socialist and communist regimes. You said what he did. You said that horrible deal that was made with the United States by Obama and Biden. I don’t think Biden probably was too involved, if you want to know the truth, keep him out, but it was a terrible deal. It was like the Iran deal. Here’s 150 billion for nothing. As long as I’m president, America will never be a socialist country, will never be.
This year I’ve laid out the boldest and most ambitious second term agenda in history. We will create 10 million new jobs in the first 10 months, 2021, we will have 10 million jobs over the next four years. We will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. We will expand opportunity zones. We will bring home our medical supply chains they’re all coming home. And we will end reliance on China once and for all. We will defend religious liberty, the right to life, and the right to keep and bear arms. And we will restore patriotic education to our schools.
In our debate last week, Joe Biden said that America has, “Never, ever lived up to our founding ideals,” right? And he said it was an idea, it was just an idea. No, America’s a great country. The United States is a great country. It’s not an idea. It’s a great country. Pennsylvanians know the truth more than most. When you think of the great history of this state, from Washington’s crossing and Independence Hall in Philadelphia, to the Quakers who ran the underground railroad. From the union soldiers who lay at the rest and you lay at rest, they lay at rest in Gettysburg. What a place, Gettysburg, one of the most beautiful places and so gruesome for a period of time, never fight uphill my boys, right? He said, ” Never fight uphill me boys, never fight uphill.” They fought uphill.
To the workers of Bethlehem and Allentown who forged the steel that won World War II. America is the story of everyday citizens who have given everything to help this country live up to the highest ideals. My fellow citizens, you deserve a president who believes in America, a president who loves our country, and a president who loves you. Everybody knows that Joe Biden is not equipped to lead America. To Republicans, Democrats, and independents across this state, across this nation, I am asking for you to honor me with a vote that’s going to make our nation greater than ever before. I will continue to fight for you with every breath in my body, and with your support on Tuesday, we will show the world that for our country and for our children and for the incredible people of Pennsylvania, the best is indeed yet to come. Thank you very much. Thank you.
(singing)
Wow. Thank you. What a crowd. What a beautiful crowd. Look at that, you can’t even see the end of it. What a great crowd. Thank you very much. Hello, Wisconsin. We’re back. We’re back. We’re going to win. We’re going to win this state. We win this state, you know what? It’s over, if we win Wisconsin. I’ve treated Wisconsin very well. Four days from now, we’re going to win this state and we’re going to win four more beautiful years in the White House. With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, defend our borders. Without borders, we don’t have a country, do we?
Protect our second amendment, protect religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful words, “Made in the USA.” They’re starting to do that. You remember, I used to say four years ago, “We’re going to bring back the words Merry Christmas.” We did, right? Merry Christmas. Those big department stores, they liked happy New Year. I said, “No, you can say them both, but you can’t do one without the other.” Merry Christmas is back. You notice that right? And pretty soon we’re going to be there. Joe Biden will shut down your state’s economy, wipe out your factories, ship your jobs to China.
Boo.
To China, that’s paid him off by the way. China that’s paid him off. You know that, right? Although you don’t get too much news, but you get enough, you know what’s going on. They don’t like giving you the news. Punish your family with a $4 trillion tax hike, eliminate private healthcare. 180 million people have private health care, they want to take it away. And send your state into a catastrophic… Do you want to use the word recession or depression? Because the word is depression. Biden has vowed to eliminate the entire US oil industry, no fracking, no energy and gas prices going five, six, $7 for a gallon. How do you like $2 gasoline, good? There’ll be no heating in the winter, no air conditioning in the summer and no electricity whenever the hell you want it. Right now, you have it made. You’re so lucky. You are so lucky I’m your president. And your team is doing a good job, right? They’re doing a good job, right? They are doing a good job. And while I’m president, America will proudly remain energy independent. How does that sound? First time, you’re energy independent. We’re the biggest in the world, nobody close. Biden will deliver poverty, misery, depression. I will deliver jobs, jobs, jobs, and the greatest economy in the history of our country. That’s going to be next year, you see it. Yesterday it was announced, last quarter, our economy grew at the astonishing speed, 33.1%. The largest GDP growth ever recorded. And not just by a little bit, by more than double. Right? And that was in 1952, but more than double. Think of it. It’s never been anything like that, for any country. Not only ours, for any country. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs. We have a super V. I used to talk about the V. This is no longer V, this is a super V. This is despite the fact that the Democrat governors have States shut down, right? Gee, does that sound-
Boo.
Hey, does that sound familiar to you? Middle-class family income is up more than $6,000 under my administration, far greater than the past administration. I mean, that was not up. That was doing very poorly. We created the greatest economy in history, and now we’re doing it again. Make America Great Again, again. We did it once. That hat, see that hat is now obsolete. It’s called Make America Great Again, again. In a very recent poll Gallup, they said 56% of Americans said they were doing better today than they were four years ago. And we’re rounding the turn on a pandemic and it’s 56. And it’s the highest number they’ve ever recorded, so we’re doing something right.
Joe Biden has spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars, in countries that most of you have never even heard of. I mean, think of it. And you know, at the debate… Did anybody see the debate by any chance? During the debate, he’d say, “Well, we’re going to do this.” I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” “We’re going to do that. We’re going to do this to that, this and that.” “Joe, why didn’t you do it, Joe?” That was an easy debate. 91% to 9%, they said. That was good. That’s like a great football game. No, I said, “But Joe…” I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” “Well, I don’t know exactly.” And then the last question was a disaster. Basically, he said, no more oil, no more fracking, no more anything. I said, “Did he say that?”
And I just said, “We just left a great place…” You know that. It was a little cold there. This is like warm by comparison. This is a pleasure. This is a pleasure. That was cold. I said, “Let’s cut this a little bit shorter,” but we have a big crowd. We had a big crowd. No matter where we go, we have these massive crowds And I’m going up to Minnesota. We’re going to Minnesota, which we have a chance. Not since 1972, think of it. So those are odds that aren’t good, but they like us up there, with the Iron Range, all the things I’ve done for them up there. And helping them when the rioters and anarchist attacked. We took over and we did a great job. But they should have called us two weeks earlier, in all fairness, and they called. If they called us, federal government, if they called us two weeks earlier, that would have been nice. You would have had no problem. It took us about what? 25 minutes to solve the problem, right? Boom, they just marched.
But we’re going and governor just informed us though, that… So we have 25,000 people, 25,000 people, that’s lot. You got a lot here. 25,000 people in Minnesota. They said we can only have 250 people. So they were hoping I’d say, “Oh, well, we can’t do that. Let’s turn around.” No, we’re going to go. We’re going to go. It’ll be a very interesting trip. Even if we see 250 people… Can I be honest with you? Everybody understands, you can’t play those games. That could very well, aside from Omar… Omar’s our secret weapon. Ilhan Omar, that’s our secret weapon in Minnesota. No, she doesn’t love our country. I don’t like people that don’t love our country, I don’t. And the other, and you know all about this because you’ve had your things, the other is we want law and order. We’ve got to have law and order. You look at what’s going on in Philadelphia, we can’t have that. You have to let the police do what they do. I mean, they have to do their job.
When I watched that, again Democrats, it’s all Democrats, when I watched that and people are looting stores and you have the anarchists, the rioters, but they’re looting stores. They’re walking out with dishwashers. They’re walking out, guy has a dishwasher, he couldn’t even… He’s pushing it. Their washer… I mean, they have television sets and they’re walking and the police are standing there. And those police don’t want to be standing there. They don’t want to do that. They want to be able to do their job, but they’re not. And you can’t have that. We need law and order, as we had right here, as we did a very good job right here. We got the endorsement of everybody. Everybody in your state, every law enforcement group in your state endorsed us. I think every law enforcement group in the country endorsed us.
I asked sleepy Joe, during one of the debates, I said, “Joe, who endorsed you from law enforcement?” And he couldn’t answer the question. Now possibly that happened, but he’s got a very bad memory too. He can’t… He was going, “Now, let me think. Give me about 20 minutes, I’ll figure it out.” I doubt he has any. I doubt he has any. I think we have everybody. We have everybody, Florida, Texas, Oklahoma. Chicago endorsed us. Isn’t that nice? Chicago, with all the problems they have. And they have a great group of people from law enforcement. They could stop those problems. I mean, you see what’s going on there. New York has gone through the roof, New York’s finest. We have New York’s finest, these are incredible police. They could do the job, but they have to be allowed to do the job. And they endorsed me. First time in the history of the police force in New York, that they endorsed a presidential candidate, so it was pretty cool.
So Joe Biden tried to cut Medicare, during the course of his terms and he worked very hard on cutting social. You wouldn’t believe that, right? And we actually put it up. We put it on… Where is that screen? For places that we really like, we use the screen. It’s very expensive. You’ll see. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, which is the worst trade deal ever made and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Which of course Wisconsin, 130 minimum manufacturing jobs. At every turn, Biden betrayed American workers and twisted his knife into the back of Wisconsin workers. You suffered as much as anybody. Biden’s also spent half a century, really a half a century, betraying Black Americans. He devastated Black families with the 1994 Crime Bill. And he called Black youth, “Super predators,” a term that’s a terrible term. Super predators over and over again. And then he wonders why they’re not doing well with the Black vote. The Black votes not turning out for him.
See, now we don’t have to go by the fake polls. Now you see what’s happening. He’s not doing well with the Black vote. You know why? Because they remember that, and they remember 1994 and they remember him calling everybody a super predator. And that’s a term that they don’t like. That’s a term that nobody would like. But they’re not showing up to vote, and others aren’t either. We’re doing great in Florida. We’re doing great in Ohio. We’re doing great in… North Carolina was fantastic. I think we’re doing really good in Pennsylvania. We’re doing very good in Pennsylvania. I think we’re doing good all over the place, you want to know the truth. I think we’re doing good all over. We’re doing great here. I think they just said here we’re either tied or one up or tied or one down.
It’s like essentially tied. I don’t know how the hell I can be tied with this guy. He’s shot. He’s shot. They said, “Sir, you’re tied in Wisconsin.” Normally that means because we have like a hidden voter, people that don’t want to talk about it, they just go out and vote for Trump. I never knew. Should I be complimented by that? “We don’t want to talk about it. Leave us alone. We’re voting for Trump.” Right? So when you tied, that’s a good thing. But they said, “Sir, we’re tied.” And I said, “That’s interesting.” And then the fake Washington post, ABC, right? Did you see that?
Boo.
So, we are tied. I was up here two days ago. We gave a great speech. That was a cold one. We gave a speech on a racetrack. We got a lot of people and it was freezing, but I got through that. There was no way that I leave early or the great people of Wisconsin, because you don’t know about that. There was no way. Anyway, this pole, so we’re tied. Let’s say we’re tied, one up, one down, we’re right, boom. Very close, I think we’re going to take it, easily actually. I think we’re going to take it… Because we’re going to have a turnout, probably on Tuesday. Our people like to vote, they like to vote on Tuesday, not even on Sunday or Monday, but [inaudible 00:14:56]. So Washington Post and ABC, it’s called Washington Post-ABC Poll, they come out 17 down. “Donald Trump is 17 down in Wisconsin.”
Boo.
I said, Wait a minute, I just left a crowd of 25,000 people or more. They were going crazy. That wasn’t a second place crowd.” We know second place crowds. That was not a second place crowd. And they did it to me four years ago with crooked Hillary. They had me, “He’s down 12,” two weeks to go. You remember? Washington Post-ABC, crooked as hell. It’s called suppression polls. You know what it does? It suppresses the vote. You get depressed. You like Trump. You know, “I like the president, but let’s…” And in the case four years ago, “I like Donald Trump. He’s going to do a good job.”
We did more than we said we were going to do. We did more than any administration has ever done in the first three and a half years. But it’s a suppression thing. So when it came out 12 down, we actually wrote them legal letters and everything and then they changed the vote. Can you believe it? They change it, where we were one down, but that was the day before the election. Two weeks to go, 12 down. But this one was 17 down in your state and I said, “I could be three down. I could also be three up.”
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
I could be three down. I could be four down. I could also be three up or four up. One thing I know, I’m not 17 down. So I called up the best pollster, a guy, it doesn’t matter, let’s just call him John. His first name’s John. I said, “John, can I ask you a question? I just left Wisconsin. We had a tremendous crowd. It was like a love fest. And then I wake up…” True. “And then I wake up like two days later and I see a poll, Washington Post, it’s all over the place…” They love it, all the fake news. Look at all of them back, they’re fake.
Boo.
Among the most dishonest people in the world. Now they have a new thing, they don’t report. They don’t report on criminality, like with the Biden crime family. They don’t want to report. But fortunately, we have guys like Ron Johnson that are willing to say it like it is. It’s true. It’s actually very true, what I just said. He’s fantastic, but we’ll get to him later. Your senator is fantastic. So you take a look and I said, “I’m not 17 now.” And he’s a really smart guy, he says, “No, you’re not.” I said, “But don’t they have to pay a price, like they did it 12 down, four years ago.” And then I said, “Isn’t it a bad thing?” He said, “Yeah, but they want you to lose.” I said, “Well, why don’t they make it that I’m three or two down, or make it believable?” “No, no. Three down or two down’s no good. Because if they go three down, two down, four, even five…” I said, “Make it five.” He said, “No, no good. Because that means you have a chance, that might even bring people out.” They want to…
… Because that means you have a chance. That might even bring people out. They want to make it so bad. And they said, “No.” They’re very smart people. They’re very vicious people. And they purposely make these polls phony. They’re phony polls. And he said, “The only way they really can do it, they have to make it so that the people here think you’re 17 down and they don’t go and vote because they say it’s hopeless.” Five down, four down, three down means, gee, he has a chance. 17 down means, darling, let’s go to dinner, let’s have a wonderful dinner. And then we’ll come home and watch the President lose, but we’re not going to lose. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. True. True story.
Isn’t that some story? Isn’t that sad? And he knows the people. He said, “No, this is the way they do it.” And then they came with another state where I was 10 down that I’m going to actually win the state. It’s a terrible thing. We have tremendous dishonesty in polling, but not only polling. I mean, the stories. And now there’s something that happened. We call it freedom of the press, right? This is the opposite of freedom of the press, because they now suppress.
It’s now suppression of the press, because now they have stories and they don’t want to have … you cannot get a story out on Biden criminality. We have the laptop from hell. We have the worst things anyone’s ever seen, and they just won’t write about it. And that includes big tech. So you know what I’m doing? Here’s who I’m facing, a corrupt Democrat party that spied on my campaign and we caught them. They spied on the campaign.
Lock them up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up. Lock him up.
Thank you. See, I never do anything to encourage it. Because they say, “He led the chant. Lock him up, lock him up. He led the chant against crooked Hillary.” All she did was get rid of 33,000 emails once she got a subpoena from Congress. She deleted them. She acid washed them, and then she took a hammer to a telephones and she beat the hell out of the phone. I’ve gotten rid of a lot of phones, I’ve never hit them with a hammer. Has anybody hit the phone with a hammer? I don’t know. Well, we’ll have to tell that to Ron Johnson. We can put that. That is a strange event, Ron. I bet you never hit your phone with a hammer. No, it’s called you throw it out, right? You throw out your phone, you start all over again.
No, we’ve got a corrupt bunch of people, but think of it. I’m all up here alone. Think of this. I have the Democrats impeach me for making a phone call. No, I make a phone call to a man I never met. The new President of Ukraine. “Congratulations, congratulations.” It was a perfect phone call. Everybody said it. 297 to nothing in the house, the Republicans voted, right? It’s like this perfect phone call, congratulate&gt; Everyone said to me, “Please call him, he just won.” You know I’m busy, right? I say, “Okay, I’ll call him.” Get the president. Nice guy. “Congratulations, ba, ba, ba. By the way, if you see any crime,” because it we’re supposed to … we have a crime because it’s a lot of corruption there, “Please report it to the Attorney General of the United States.” Oh, we should impeach him.
I got impeached over a perfect phone call, but they didn’t know we had the call essentially recorded. Thank goodness we had, because they were making up stories, right? They died when they heard we had it transcribed by very professional people. They died because it had already been way down the track by the time they found that out, I had to do that. We called up, we said, “Do you mind if we put your phone call on public record?” They said, “Why would that be? It was just a congratulatory call.” I said, “Well, you’ll find out.” These are bad people.
So here’s where we have. We have the Democrats. Now we have big tech. Now we also have the rhinos. Now the rhinos in many ways are worse than all of them. And most of the rhinos I beat because they were all representing one of the 17, because we had 18 running, but they were … who most of whom I get along with. Some of them I don’t like, I can tell you the good ones and the bad ones, but I beat all of these guys. And they ended up being rhinos and bad people. And here we are. And we’re President. I think we’re going to have something that’s even better than what we did four years ago. I really believe that. I really believe it. Because you don’t have crowds like this and be on the losing side. You leave here, he said, “Gee, that doesn’t sound like a second place. You can’t even see the end of the crowd. That doesn’t look like a second place finisher.” So when you hear about suppression, you have some very nice people up there, about two of them. But when you hear that, that’s right, I know every one of them there, some of them are great, actually, but we’re going to have a big victory.
And this election is the most important election of our lifetime. This is a more important election than the last one, and I never thought I’d say it because they have gone so far radical left that we have to make this final step. And we’re going to be normalizing our country, really normalizing our country.
And you know what else normalizes it? Success. I’ll tell you, before the plague came in from China, they should have never let it happen. But before the plague came in from China, I was getting calls from people that you would least expect. It was time. We had the best numbers, the best employment, the best everything, the stock market all time high, everything was the best. And they were like, “Let’s talk,” and it was happening. Then we got hit with the plague. Success brings this country together, and we’re going to have success next year. We’re going to have success next year.
The most successful year Wisconsin ever had was last year. You’re going to have a year. I mean, unless some guy gets in that wants to quadruple your taxes, which he wants to do. He’s the only guy I’ve ever seen, “We will raise your taxes.” All my life I’ve seen politicians say, we’re going to cut your taxes. He’s the only guy ever campaigning on. He’s going to increase your taxes. In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt political establishment. And you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first.
If I don’t sound like a typical politician is because I’m not a politician, if that’s okay. And if I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fight harder for you than any President at any time in the history of our country.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
That’s so nice. Thank you. That’s a chant that has never been heard politically. Nobody’s ever … even these people, they have … there’s never been a time. We like Ronald Reagan. We like people, but they’ve never had that chant, so it’s an honor. Don’t keep it going too long, because I’ll start to cry. I’ll get a little. And we can’t tell President Xi of China that the President was crying because they said they loved him. Right?
And the fake news would report it, “President Trump broke down in tears, as they shouted,” somehow it doesn’t work for us. Right? We can’t do that. Right. Look at him. He goes, “No way, you can’t do it.” No, we appreciate it. It is. It’s a chant that nobody’s ever heard before. It started happening like six weeks ago. And I said, “Man, that’s very unusual,” but it’s a beautiful chant and I appreciate it.
I’m not just running against sleepy Joe Biden. I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants and the Washington swamp, and it’s deep and vicious. And they can’t believe what’s happening. They can’t believe it. They would have taken most people out. Almost anybody would have been taken out.
And I have been helped a lot by that man right there named Ron Johnson. I have. It’s true. He’s a tough guy and he’s a smart guy. And I knew it earlier than anybody else. I knew it. I had a meeting with Ron Johnson and we were going to have a very complex tax. Most people had no idea what we were even talking about. He understood it so good. I mean, so he really understood it. So I knew a long time ago, what you had. Don’t lose him. Don’t ever lose him.
You need to show up in record numbers and deliver a blistering defeat to these corrupt forces. And they are corrupt as hell. They’re trying to take over our country, and we caught them. They’re coming for your guns. They’re coming for your jobs, and they’re coming for your freedom. Think about it. Your vote will stop them on November 3rd, get out there. You got to vote. It’s the most important issue. One of the most truly important issues.
You don’t like to even mention it, but as law and order. And I mentioned that to Biden during one of the debates, I said, “Hey, Joe, say the words law and order, can you do it?” He wouldn’t do it because he didn’t want to lose the radical left. He didn’t want to lose them. Joe Biden and his party have spent the entire year inciting violence and hatred against our police officers. He refuses to say, you got to stop it. You cannot run through Portland to destroy the city.
I mean, it’s been going on. We could stop it in 30 minutes. In Seattle, I said, “I don’t care. We waited and waited. The Governor never called. We waited. I said, “You got to go in.” They took over a part of the city. I mean, this is even … to even talk about this, who would think of this? Seattle. And we were going in and we told them, “We’re coming in the morning,” and you know what they did? That evening they raised their hand and they left. That was the end of it. And a lot of people are paying a big price, by the way, but they raised their hands and they left.
Or the statues. We signed a law, you knock down statutes … They were knocking down statues all over the country. You knock down statues, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s an old law. It’s amazing how we haven’t seen too much trouble with statutes. There were groups that formed. They wanted to do it. They wanted, and then they said, “Let’s get the hell out of here.” 10 years, 10 years. It says 10 years in prison, old law that we reenacted. You could never get that passed today with this crazy group, Nancy Pelosi and crying Chuck Schumer.
Crying Chuck Schumer and Nancy would never pass anything like that. They’d say, “No, you’re allowed to rip down anything you want.” We have a DC mayor that set up a commission, to talk about all of the things, cancel culture let’s talk about. They don’t like the Washington monument. They want it renamed or taken down. This was their recommendation. But don’t worry about it. We’re not doing, I promise you. They don’t like the Thomas Jefferson Memorial because they don’t like it. They don’t even know why. Tell me why. And they don’t like even the Lincoln Memorial, right? They don’t like the Lincoln.
So they wanted recommendations to change the name or take them down. And I said, “I think this commission should be immediately disbanded because it’s not going anywhere.” But they are. I mean, this is a fact. Take down the Washington monument. These people are stone cold crazy. You have to go out and you have to vote.
Biden stands with the rioters and looters, and Biden wouldn’t say anything about the report. They asked him about the report, he didn’t want to comment. “I have no comment.” Do you want to take down the Washington monument? “I have no comment on that.” Oy yoy yoy, he has no clue. He never had much of a clue. Now we know he …
I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. These are great people. We have to help them. If Biden wins, the rioters in the streets, they’ll be running your Federal government. There’ll be running your government. No city, no family and no community will be safe. The Biden-Harris. How about Harris? Kamala. Kamala. And you have to say her name right or she gets very upset, right? Even though she doesn’t say it right.
But the Biden-Harris plan would end cash bail releasing 400,000 dangerous criminals immediately onto your streets, murderers and rapists. What’s going on is crazy. When the violent mob came to a place known as Kenosha, did you ever hear of Kenosha? Because I did. Remember what I did? If I didn’t activate immediately, Kenosha would not be there any longer. They were going to take it down. Biden opposed sending in the National Guard and I insisted on it. And I frankly wish the Governor asked me sooner, but at least he asked me, but we came in and that was over at about another 15 minutes, right? That didn’t take long. That didn’t take long. And we saved Kenosha. So you still have Kenosha.
They knocked down and they burned a couple of buildings down. I went, I met with the people, and really good people. What was there 100 years? It was a photography store, was 100 years. They burned down the store, but it’s going to get rebuilt. But we stopped it. That whole area would have been burned to the ground. So we came in and it was so easy too. It’s easy, but you sometimes have to meet force with force. You can’t just stand back, sit back and watch it take place like they did in Minneapolis. Then we went in and it took place very quickly.
Usually if it takes like more than a half an hour to wipe the whole thing out, I say, you’re not doing a very good job. Biden’s running mate, the most liberal Senator in America, even urged their supporters to donate to a fund that bailed out the rioters, took them right out of jail, including a cop killer or an attempted cop killer.
Biden wants to lock down your homes. He’s ready to lock it down. I mean, you guys are already in a lock down, so you might not notice it as much. Hey, Governor, you got to open up your state here. You got to open it up. You’ve got to open up your state. Got to open it up.
It’s sad. It’s sad, you got to go back. You understand? You’re going to socially distance. You’re going to do all the things you want to do. But I mean, we’re having these outdoor rallies. They say outdoor. Outdoor, normally would go into an arena. I actually like this stuff better. Although sometimes it’s snowing and sleet. I loved that last stop, but it was, the rain was pouring like sideways. It was going, “Sss,” that stuff. That’s when you say, I love the indoor arenas, but I like these. With a day like this it’s so beautiful. It’s great. Is there any place better to be that a Trump rally? No, seriously. It’s great.
But this election is a choice between a Trump super boom or a Biden depression. That’s what it is. And it’s also between opening up and keeping it closed. You see what’s happening in Europe? They’re trying it again. They’re going to close up. They closed up and they destroyed their economy. Our economy is so much better, so much stronger. Went down so much less. And now it’s come up faster than any country in the world. But ours is between a safe vaccine, which is coming very shortly, it’s momentarily, or a devastating lockdown. That’s what Biden wants to do because he has no choice.
He will not call the shots. He will not call the shots, and everybody knows it. Thanks to our historic campaign to slash red tape and mobilize industry, we will deliver a safe vaccine to the American people in literally over the next few weeks we think, over the next few weeks. There was a lot of pressure. There was a lot of pressure on everybody, including on the FDA, not to let this happen before the election.
So let me tell you, if Biden was in charge of this vaccine, just like the swine flu. He was in charge of H1N1, right? Which he can never get right. He can’t remember it. It’s always messed up. Sometime he does N1H1. And I say, “No.” But it’s the swine flu. I said, “Just call it the swine flu. It’s easier.” Right? It’s the same thing. Call it the swine flu. That was a catastrophe. And his own Chief of Staff said it was the dumbest run thing they’ve ever done. And the lethality is much less than what this was and is, was, and sort of was because we have therapeutics now that are incredible. In fact, here I am. I’m here, right?
They gave me a shot, Regeneron it’s called, and now there’s Eli Lilly now have the antibody stuff. And I’d like to say it had no impact, but I wasn’t feeling good. I like to say, because of my physical power, my strength, my young age. I made the case. I made the case. CNN got very angry. I said, “I’m not concerned.” No, I said, “When I got better, I got better quick.”
Superman. Superman. Superman. Superman. Superman.
No, CNN got very angry. Fake news. CNN is totally fake. I said, “No, I beat it because I’m in perfect physical shape,” and I’m a very young …
I beat it because I’m in perfect physical shape, and I’m a very young person. Well, our First Lady got it. She got better. Barron got it. He got better so fast, we didn’t even know. We said, the doctor said, “Sir, Barron has tested positive.” I said, “For what?” He’s very young and very tall. He’s seriously tall. He’s a good kid, but he’s a strong kid, but he’s a kid and the immune systems, so they said, Dr. Shaw, and he’s great. He’s White House physician. He said, “Barron tested positive.” I said, “For what?” He said, “For COVID.” There’s like 30 different names. I happened to call it the China plague or the China virus, because it’s more accurate. Right?
About 14 minutes later, I said, “How’s Barron doing? “Well, he’s recovered, fully.” I said, “Barron, were you feeling bad?” “I didn’t know anything, Dad. What was wrong, Dad?” By the way, speaking to that, get back to school. Get back to school. Okay? Get back to school, right? Look, Ron [inaudible 00:37:13] agrees. Seniors be the first in line to get it, and we will, we’re making it available free, because it’s not your fault that this thing happened. The vaccine, by the way, with or without the vaccine, we’re rounding the turn, but the vaccine makes it go faster. The vaccines are going to be out very soon. Very, very soon. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus and the pandemic, quickly restore normal life. I just want normal life. You do too.
All we want is normal life. I’m looking up to the sky. A friend of mine said, “You’re the most famous man in the world.” I said, “No, I’m not. No, I’m not.” “No,” he said, “No, who’s more famous than you. You are the most famous man in the world. What are you talking about? Who’s more famous?” I said, “Jesus Christ.” I don’t want to take any chances. I looked up and I said, “It’s not even close.” All right. But, next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, crash the economy and lock down the entire country. He doesn’t mind locking down the country. The country could not stand it. You know, we locked it down shortly. We did it. We figured it out. We protect our elderly people, et cetera, but he thinks it’s fine.
He loves that whole deal. I’ll tell you. All he talks about is COVID. He gets up today. He’s talking COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. The truth is, we have done an incredible job with the ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics, but all he does, because he’s got nothing else he can talk about, because no administration in the history of our country has done what we’ve done. I say it all the time. In the first three and a half years, what we’ve done with tax cuts and regulation cuts and rebuilding our military, which was totally depleted and a disaster. What we’ve done with our military, and so many other things, you know them all. Nobody’s done, and they never even questioned me.
The fake news with all the cameras, it’s never like where they come, “Oh, you shouldn’t have said that.” Nobody’s done … You think of it, Space Force. We could name, right, we could name so many different things. Under the Biden lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, and you’ll have no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no 4th of July, no future. Other than that, he’s doing a fantastic job. Biden wants to keep everyone locked up, even young Americans who are extremely low risk, like we talked about. He wants to steal the dreams and the future of our young people. One thing we’ve learned, the the computers are great and the laptops, everything’s great.
For telehealth, it’s been great, where people can stay in, and that’s really been, I think it’s up like 7000% or something. It’s a great thing. But you know, for school learning, it’s terrible. It doesn’t work. It can’t compare to a class or a campus. They’re trying so hard to say, “Oh gee, this is wonderful.” It doesn’t compare. It’s well-documented. You’re taking a large percentage of a young life out of play. It’s a terrible thing you’re doing to young kids. It’s a terrible thing that’s happening with the parents too, because the kid’s at school and the parents are working now. The parents don’t know what to do. Many of their jobs are gone, anyway. Now, you got to open up your state. You got to do it fast. You got to do it fast.
Thanks to our relentless efforts, only 3% of the emergency room visits nationwide are related to the virus. Think of that. 3%, because you know what it is? They only talk about cases. The reason we have so many cases, because we test. If I tested half, they said, “Test, test, test.” We test more than any country in the world, by far. We have the best tests. These are things that we never even had six months ago. Now, if I said, “Let’s cut the testing down in half, you’d have half. Everyone would say, “Oh, the cases are way down.” Right? But, you know what? It’s good because we know if there’s a problem, et cetera, et cetera. We know if there’s a hotspot. But that’s exactly what it is. I mean, but what we do and what we’ve done so well, other therapies, and if you think of it, the fatality rate is down 85% and more now. Think of that.
But, they talk about cases because when you hear 3% of the emergency rooms are devoted … It’s supposed to be 100%, and the hospitals are going to close. They don’t know what’s going on. It’s been amazing what we’ve been able to do, but you don’t hear them talking about death. You hear them talking about, because as a percentage, what we’ve done compared to other countries is incredible. Now, especially with the explosion that you see taking place over in Europe. We’ve done a great job, and I’ll tell you what, our Vice President has been fantastic. You compare Vice-Presidents and if you don’t mind, I’ll take the one we have. Okay?
You talk about a victory at a debate. That was one of the greatest victories at a debate I’ve ever seen. That one wasn’t even close. Our excess mortality rate is 42% lower than Europe’s. Think of that. Where cases are now surging, despite very powerful lockdowns that they’ve been put. In. They’ve had very powerful lockdowns. But don’t take my word for it. I want to just show you something on a screen. Okay? Very special people get this. We have a video on our fight against the China virus and a couple of other quick things. Again, we only do this for extremely important states, ans people. And Go ahead
The fact is, every time I’ve called the president, he’s quickly gotten on the line. When we asked to get support for that mercy ship in Southern California, he was able to direct that in real time.
What the federal government did working with states, was a phenomenal accomplishment.
We got 2000 of these field medical sites that are up, almost all operational now, in the state because of his support, and those are the facts.
His team has been on it. I know a team when they’re on it. I know a team when they’re not on it. His team is on it. They’ve been responsive, late at night, early in the morning.
We are working very well with FEMA Region 2, and with the Army Corps of Engineers, building four field hospitals. That was the decision the president himself took, and I’m grateful for it.
These were just extraordinary efforts and acts of mobilization and the federal government stepped up. We needed help and they were there.
He said everything that I could have hoped for. We had a very long conversation and every single thing he said, they followed through on.
We’ve got to have double the number of ventilators that we requested for that area of the state. In fact, we got them in frankly, short order.
Have we lost anyone because we didn’t have a bed or we didn’t have a ventilator? Well, we didn’t have healthcare staff? No.
The president was extending support for new swabs. A conversation, commitment, a promise made, promise kept.
My problem is, I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is the positive thing to do. I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements, like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people who making pennies an hour, has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right, when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t didn’t do enough about it. George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it. Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
Rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. Rising China is positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise.
China’s a great nation, and we should hope for the continued expansion.
China is not our enemy.
We talk about China as our competitor. We should be helping.
The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre.
The idea that they are the competition. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which he supported, extending Most Favored Nation Status to China, which he supported. Those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us.
Do you think, in retrospect, that you were naive about China?
No.
But, doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us, because he’s forgotten his own plants. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along. During a quickie escape, the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal. One of the things that that is important, is that, keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on [inaudible 00:47:37].
That was terrifying.
What kind of country are going to be? Four more years of George, George …we’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
You know, I like that, because I save a lot of words. You can never duplicate what you see up there, but you see the governors. Then, they’ll say, although some of them have been actually very good, but we’ve done a great job and you see it there. That’s what their real feeling is. But when they get up to a mic, “Well, I don’t know if he’s done that good.” Now, we’ve done a great job. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life to the fullest, you have to vote republican. It’s so important. You have to vote Republican. We’re joined today with some really great people and a man that’s right at the top of that list for me, is Senator Ron Johnson. Thank you, Ron. I’m telling you, you’re lucky to have him. He’s a fantastic man. He’s done an incredible job and he’s got a lot of courage too. In Washington, he’s respected by everybody. Also, Congressman Glenn Grothman. Glenn? There’s Glenn. Thank you, Glenn. Mike Gallagher. Thanks, Mike. Great job. Great guys. Somebody that’s done a really good job for us, GOP chairman, Andrew Hitt. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. How are we doing Andrew?
Doing great, Sir.
All right. Because we don’t, we’re not going to fire you so damn … You’ll be out of here, Andrew. No, I think we’re doing great. Yeah, I think we’re doing great. I also want to thank a legendary champion and a Green Bay Packer, personified Hall of Famer, Brett Farve, for his endorsement. I got, he’s a tough guy. He’s great. But, ,two days ago I saw that he endorsed me and I just want to thank him. He’s a hell of a champion. He’s a great champion. I look at some of his records. You don’t even realize it, but when you look at passing yards and touchdowns, and one thing about him, tough as hell and great and really talented. I want to thank Brett Farve. Thank you very much
For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations. Now we are rebuilding, if it’s okay with you, our nation. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with a brand new UMSCA. Wisconsin dairy farmers were decimated under the Obama and Biden plan. Just think about it. I only ran because of them. I said that during the debate. I said, “Joe, never thought of this, I ran because of you people, because you did such a bad job.” He had no response to that. With the USMCA, are dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by more than 100%. Okay? Just went into effect and we’re not going to be losing our companies to Mexico and Canada. We’re not going to have our companies close up and get rid of everybody, fire everybody. And move and do the same product in Mexico.
You saw that. It’s probably the number one reason I ran. I couldn’t stand watching it and it’s going to be, now, they’re going to pay a tremendous economic price if they do that. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. They took millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party, while Vice President Biden shipped your jobs to China. How the hell can he negotiate with China with the money they take. The news, they don’t want to cover it. The fake media, the lame stream media and the companies, right? These wonderful companies that obviously don’t love our country. It’s suppression. They don’t want to cover it. If Biden wins, China wins. His son walks in and takes out one and a half billion dollars to manage millions of dollars a year. They walk in.
Where’s Hunter?
Where’s Hunter? He wants to know, where’s Hunter? We haven’t found him. He’s still looking for his laptop from hell. That’s where he is. “Where’s my laptop?” “Hunter, you left it at a repair shop. You’d never picked it up.” You know what they go? “Russia did it. Russia, Russia, Russia, Ron it’s Russia. I know it’s Russia.” I saw Adam Schiff, watermelon head, like this. “I believe that Russia caused his problem. Russia.” Yeah. Yeah. Here we go. Russia, Russia, Russia. We have a great head of DNI. He said, “No, it had nothing to do with Russia.” Put out a very strong statement, nothing to do. If it does, we let it know. We let Russia know. But this is pure, disgusting, evil stuff that goes on. Your tech companies don’t want to put it on you. Even the New York Post, which had real courage by the way, and they endorsed me two days ago. That’s [inaudible 00:52:59] But, they had real courage. They took down the New York Post site. Can you believe it? The New York Post, the oldest newspaper in the country, fourth largest of the country. They took down the site. Now, we got to get to the bottom of it. We will, with guys like Kim, we will. When we win, Wisconsin wins. When we win, America wins, and that’s what’s happening. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in US history. We have now built over 400 miles of wall. We’ll soon be finished. They don’t talk about the wall anymore. They don’t tell you. It used to kill me. I’d to go through with, and fight them and we’d close up and we’d do all sorts of things. They would go after me. Once the wall started, once they saw we had all that money lined up to get it done. The impact it’s had is incredible. It’s not completed yet, but it will be very soon. I built it exactly as Border Patrol and ICE wanted it. Exactly. I said, “What about concrete-”
… And ICE wanted it exactly. I said, “What about concrete plank?” They said, “Sir, that’s no good. Have to see through.” “Well, how about this? And how about that?” I know it all. That’s what I like. They said, “Sir, we want steel. We, then, want concrete inside the steel, and then, we’d like rebar.” I said, “Can you think of a more expensive way, maybe?”
But we gave it. And then, we want on top an anti-climb, you know the thing on top? I said, “Why are we doing that? That’s very expensive. The piece of steel on top is four feet deep.” They said, “Sir, that’s called anti-climb. It’s harder to climb.” I gave them everything. Now, they have no excuse. I don’t want to have any excuses. And our numbers on the border are phenomenal, the best we’ve ever had. Joe Biden has pledged to open borders, mass amnesty, nationwide catch-and-release. You know what that is? That’s when you catch a criminal, murderer, rapist, you let the criminal go. We argued about this during the debate. He said, “They all come back for a trial.” No, they don’t come back, Joe. Only the ones, I said, with very low IQs, come back. You have a trial in two-and-a-half years for murder, you have to come back.
We release them, and I ended it. It’s all ended. Okay. You think that was easy? It’s not easy doing this stuff. It looks easy, but it’s not. Sanctuary cities from coast to coast. They want to have sanctuary cities all over the place, and free healthcare for illegal aliens, which will bankrupt your Medicare and your social security. You will not have social security if you do that or Medicare. We all have a big heart. I do. I want to take care of everybody. The problem is you have millions of people pouring in from all over the world if you do this. As your president, I will protect your borders, I will protect your families, and I will always protect your Medicare and your social security. And I’ve always said it.
Biden and Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, one of the greatest losers of all time, this guy. No, but I meant that in a nice way. He lost, and he went back to the Senate and voted radical left, that he lost again. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren, all she had to do is get out a couple of days early. He would have won every one of those days, but she decided not to do that. I don’t think she likes Bernie, okay? But Biden will increase refugees. This was agreed with Bernie and the group and AOC plus three, right? Highly educated person on the environment AOC. Have you ever taken a class on the environment? I don’t think so. Increase refugees by 700% from terror hotspots. So, think of that, as 700… This was agreed to. I don’t think Bernie was that bad. I think, actually, Bernie went further left after they made the deal. And I’m keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Okay? If it’s okay with you.
Look at what’s gone on in France over the four days, what’s happened in France. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including nearly $6 billion to save the historic shipyard, Marinette Marine, And even more money for combat vehicle manufacturing in Oshkosh. Marinette’s doing a great job. I went to Marinette four or five months ago, looked at what they were doing. We gave the contract to them, which costs me a lot of states, but that’s okay. But we gave that to Marinette. They do a great job. They do a great job. They were ready to close. A $6 billion contract, and it’s going to be extended. They make the most beautiful ship. You have to say, it looks like a super yacht except it’s got weapons all over it. And I would say, “Paint it gleaming white and call it a yacht. But the weapons sort of throw you off a little bit.” You have more guns and things on that. I’ve never seen anything like it.
[crosstalk 00:00:58:00].
Anyway, but they’re fantastic. Biden will close the shipyard down. He would close it down. He will cut your military spending. We need it. And also, it’s all made in the USA. It’s jobs. It’s great. Best stuff. And you know what? Two and a half trillion dollars. We’re the envy of the world. We’re the envy of Russia and China. Nobody has the equipment that we have, nobody. Stealth fighter jets, F-35s. Can’t see them. Tanks, we have tanks. We have submarines. We have everything. What we’ve done… And nuclear, we’ve upgraded our nuclear. We have new nuclear. And all you do is one thing. You pray that we never have to use it. Okay? That’s the big thing.
But having it and having it in tippy-top condition is the best way that we will never, ever have to use it. It’s the best way. The last administration’s cruel VA policies resulted in deadly wait lists under Biden and Obama. 300,000 veterans died on a waiting list. To fix this travesty, we passed Veterans’ Choice and VA Accountability, accountability for firing bad people that don’t love our vets and take care of our vets, which you could not do under any circumstances, civil service, unions, whatever. And now, you can do it. Jim, you’re not treating our vets right. Get the hell out of here. You’re fired. Okay, go. All right. Now, our vets, instead of waiting for weeks, sometimes, to see a doctor, they go to a private doctor. We pay the bill. And it’s actually, it’s probably less expensive.
Yeah.
It’s probably less expensive, but much more importantly, we take care of our vets. You had vets getting online. By the time they saw the doctor, they became terminally ill. They actually have become terminally ill waiting for so long. So, now, they get out, immediately see a doctor. And recently, we just got a 91% approval rating for the way we’re running the VA, the vets, from the vets. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s top terrors. Soleimani is dead. Number one terrorist in the world. I went through from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion for nothing. You know what? They gave $150 billion, John Kerry. He’s another genius. What a deal that was. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Germany. Presidents have been talking about doing that forever, forever, many, many presidents. They campaigned on it, and then, they wouldn’t do it. And I understand why. It was not easy to do.
Praise the Lord.
We had tremendous, tremendous pressure on us not to do it, but I did it. I did it. I just didn’t take anybody’s phone call, that’s all. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been working on that for 52 years. I got it done in two hours. And instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace all throughout the Middle East for no money and no blood all over the sand, no blood. Got countries lined up, want to make a deal. They all want to come in. After all these years. On the other side and everybody, they all said, “You could never do it this way.” No, you could never do it the way they’ve wanted to do it for decades and decades.
[inaudible 01:01:36].
I’ve done more in 47 months than Joe Biden has done in 47 years. A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. And remember, the Republican party is the party of the late, great Abraham Lincoln. Right? Got to remember that. People forget that. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China, which has already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. They’re dead. They’re gone. We will end the big tech monopoly and restore freedom of speech. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed, starts January 1st, will be bigger than healthcare. You watch. Lower drug prices even more. And there’ll be down 50%, 60%, 70% because I’ve invoked favored nations. The drug companies, big pharma, they call it, does not like me too much. They have more ads than sleepy Joe has against me. Every time you see one of those ads, remember, your drug, they’re just plummeting. Those prices are coming down. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, right? All right? America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education in our schools. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God, we trust.”
In God, we trust.
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Wisconsin. I am. For some reason, I like you. You know why I like you? Because we had a victory. They didn’t think I was going to win. And we kept waiting for Pennsylvania. It was obvious I was going to win, but the fake news didn’t want to call it because that would have meant the end. And then, out of the blue comes, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin [crosstalk 00:10:48].”
Along with Ron, Donald Trump. I was a very pretty sound. And that was it. That was it. You were the one. You got us over the top. You better do it again. So, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get out to vote. Got to get out to vote on November 3rd, or previous to November 3rd, just get out the vote. Whichever way you want to do it, whatever way you want to do it, you got to get out to vote. This is a very serious… We’re doing.
We love you.
Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone. I appreciate it. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the rest of the swamp. We’ve drained lot of them. From Madison to Milwaukee, from Janesville to Kenosha, and from La Crosse to right here in Green Bay. I love Green Bay. But I love Kenosha too because we did a great job there. We showed them something, right? We showed them how to stop them. That was sort of easy, but I love Kenosha. We inherit the legacy of Wisconsin Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great, great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. It is. The best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, and we are doing that. Have you noticed? A lot of things are changing very fast in DC. We need this final step. This final step. It’s going to be something. But with your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
Winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we have made America powerful again. Our military is so powerful. We have made America wealthy again. Look at what’s happening to our country. We have made America strong again. We’re doing it with our credible law enforcement and everyone else. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again.
American great again.
Thank you. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you. Thank you, Green Bay. Get out and vote, please. Get out and vote. Most important election of your lifetime. Thank you, everybody, very much. Thank you.
Oh, what a crowd. This is some crowd. Wow. This is a big crowd. Well, thank you very much. This is a great crowd. We have a lot of great crowds. It’s something happening. You’re going to see that on the third, although the Supreme Court would probably like to delay it for a long time it looks like, but we’re going to have a tremendous victory. It’s going to be a victory like none other. It’s the most election of our lives. Hello, Michigan. How are you doing, Michigan? How are you doing? It’s cold, but I feel very warm in this group. This a great group. Four days from now, we are going to win this state and we are going on to win four more great years in the White House. We’re going to have it. We’re going to have it. Unless there’s something that we don’t see. I’m watching these Biden rallies. It’s like there’s nobody. Of course, he says that they want to do it that way on purpose. The problem is nobody shows up. They were putting on the screen our rally, that’s you, you’re all famous, very famous. And his rally, there was nobody. At least he’s doing a rally. He got out of the basement so that’s good.
With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut your regulations. Support our great police, support our military, defend our borders, protect the second amendment, which is under siege. Protect always religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the wonderful phrase. You know what it is? Made in the USA. That’s happening more and more. Thanks to our historic campaign to slash red tape and mobilize industry. We will deliver a safe vaccine to the American people in just a number of weeks, a couple of weeks. It’s happening very fast, great companies. The greatest companies of their kind in the world. And we’ve got plenty of them there too.
Seniors will be first. We make seniors first, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. They say, “Will you be the first one to take it? You know it’s a no-win situation. If I say yes, “They’ll say he demanded to be first.” If I say no, they’ll say, “He had no courage.” Now we’re going to take care of our seniors first. We’re going to take care of our doctors and frontline workers, everybody. And by the way, without it, we’re still rounding the corner. We have it, but without it, we round the corner and it will be available free. We’re doing the vaccine free. And the reason is that this wasn’t your fault. This wasn’t anyone’s fault. This was China’s fault.
Just remember it. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus much more quickly and end the pandemic quickly, quickly, quickly, because we want to have our life restored. Just a normal. That’s all we want. That’s all we want, normal. We just want normal. Bring us back seven months. That’s what we want, right? And that’s what the whole world wants. Look what’s happening in Europe. It’s terrible. It’s terrible. What China has done to this world and just remember it, just you remember it. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening.
33.1%. Nobody can blame you. They can’t believe it. They don’t like talking about it. You know they don’t like talking about it. They have a new thing going. It’s called … Thank you. Thank you. You hear that, Ben Carson? You hear that, Ben? I’ll tell you. Nobody’s ever heard that before politically. Maybe for Ben Carson. I don’t know, maybe. I love Ben Carson. Thank you, Ben and Candy. Thank you. Thank you, Candy.
Joe Biden is promising a long, dark, painful winter. Did you see him at the debate? Did anybody see the debate by any chance? No, he said, “A long, dark winter.” Oh, that’s great. That’s wonderful. That’s just what our country needs is a long, dark winter and a leader that talks about it. I didn’t have the privilege of going to my basement in the White House. I didn’t have the privilege of going to a beautiful room on the second or third floor and staying there for a year and a half because I’m president of the United States. So I didn’t have that. I had to do my job.
And I said, “You know, I could catch this thing. And if I do, I do, and I’m going to get better fast.” I didn’t know I was going to get better that fast. That was pretty good. That was like in and out. And I had a dose. I wasn’t feeling great, but I got better. And it used to be they would say, “You have lifetime immunity.” You’re immune. Now it’s different. Because it’s me they say, “I’m good for four months.” Okay? They brought it down from lifetime to four months, but that’s okay. I’ll take it. But you know what? You have to do your job. You have to get back. You have to open up your states, right? You have to open up your states.
We got to get our governor to open up our state here, don’t we? Ah, don’t worry. On November 4th, they’ll announce all these states, all these Democrat run states will be open. Not me. Not me see. They blame me every time that happens. Every time I mentioned her name, Crooked Hillary’s name, Joe Biden’s name frankly. And where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? There’s Hunter right there. He’s out by the truck. Look at him make a couple of bucks Hunter. Hunter’s done very well for an unemployed person for years. For years unemployed and then he hit pay dirt. His father became vice president and Joe had pay dirt too. That’s part of the problem.
I’m delivering the great American comeback. That’s what we’re doing. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Best unemployment numbers, best everything. We had 160 million people employed. We were never even close to that number. And then one day we saved two million lives. We had to close it up. How about that decision? Oh, how horrible to have to make it. We understood the disease. We learned the disease. We have to protect our seniors, especially if they have problems with the heart or diabetes. We opened it up and now we’re at a level. I used to talking about the V, this is a super V.
This is the biggest number, 33.1. And the news doesn’t want to talk about it because it’s positive. They only want to talk about negative when it comes to us. But 33.1, the biggest number in our country’s history by like double, but it’s much more than double. And you’d have to go back to 1952 to get anywhere close, but you know what close is? About a 17-point spread. This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan because Joe Biden. Look at what they did during their eight years. And you know I said during the debate, 91 to nine, 91 to nine. You know what that means? That was a poll. How did Trump do in the debate? 91% for Trump, nine.
Nine sisters. Look at these beautiful sisters, huh? They like Trump, but I liked them. They even have a Trump flag. Look at that Trump flag. That’s beautiful. It’s so beautiful. And you know we’re working very hard with Little Sisters of the Poor, right? You know about that. Your friends. That’s great. That’s great. It’s great to have you. Thank you very much.
Joe Biden is going to lock down your state, wipe out your factories, ship out your jobs, bring things to China whatever they can, punish your family with a trillion. Think of this. A trillion dollars times four, $4 trillion tax hike. We gave you the biggest tax reduction in the history of our country. That’s the good news. The bad news is he wants to give you the biggest tax hike in the history of our country.
He wants to eliminate private healthcare. We have 180 million people who have private health care. They’ve fought for it all their lives. They have great, great healthcare. He wants to end it and it’s not going to happen. We’re not going to let it happen and send your state into a very deep recession. But see, I think it’s worse. I think it’s depression. I just hate to use the D word. Let me just tell you something. How good have I done in bringing car companies here to Michigan? You went 42 years without a car plant. You were losing all your plants. 12 years ago, I was named Man of the Year of Michigan. Can you believe it? Long before I thought about it.
And I got up and I made a speech. I said, “You’re losing all your car business. Somebody gave me a list. You lost 32% of your car business to Mexico and other places.” And now we’re bringing it all back. You have many, many factories now under construction, expansions of existing. You haven’t had that ever. And then Biden. And remember this, I only ran because of Biden and Obama. If they did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. And I guess I wouldn’t have won either, but I wouldn’t have run. They did a lousy job. I watched them now. “I’m going to do this. I’m going to do that.” What the hell didn’t he do it? Why didn’t he do it?
Sleepy Joe and that was when he was a little bit better, a little bit more awake. He’s going to do what he hasn’t done in 47 years. I’m going to do it. That was so easy that debate because he hit me with, “I am going to do this.” And I just kept saying, Joe, “Why didn’t you do it?” And it was three and a half years ago. It wasn’t like a long time. It was three and a half years ago. Biden has vowed to abolish the entire US energy industry, right? No fracking. Guy went for a year and a half. No fracking, no fracking and then he goes to Pennsylvania. “Of course, we’re going to frack.” And the press, the fake news never asks him about it. No energy and you’re going to have gas prices.
This is not great for selling your beautiful cars. Gas prices of $6 and $7. Right now it’s nice to be under $2, isn’t it? You never thought you’d see that. You never thought you’d see that. Biden’s running made America’s most liberal Senator. She makes Bernie look like a conservative. Crazy Bernie is like a conservative compared to her. She even Kamala, you have to pronounce it exactly right, otherwise she gets very upset. Even though she can’t pronounce it right. You saw that the other day.
I think that was actually, that was on the great Laura Ingraham Show. Actually, I watched that. And I do believe Laura Ingraham is here someplace. Where is Laura? Where is she? Where is Laura? I can’t recognize you. Is that a mask? No way. Are you wearing a mask? I’ve never seen her in a mask. Look at you. Whoa, she’s being very politically correct. Whoa, whoa. I’ve never seen. Laura Ingraham. She’s fantastic. Thank you, Laura.
Ah yes. I’ve never seen that before, but even sponsored the ruinous Green New Deal. How about that? Knowing nothing about the environment. It’ll cost a $100 trillion. Does you know what a 100 trillion? Let me put it this way. You could take all the countries in the world, that can’t afford it. While I’m president, America will proudly remain energy independent. You know we’re independent now. We don’t need to be going all over the world. We don’t need to be going all over the world.
Biden will eradicate the economy. I will eradicate the virus and make the economy better than it’s ever been. That’s where we were. Now we’re doing it again. And let’s face it, he’s shot. Do you agree with that? I can say that. I’m not a fan of his, never was. He was never known as the smart one in the Senate. He was a touchy-feely guy, a little personality. He had a good personality. Now the personality’s gone and a lot of other things are gone. He’ll deliver poverty, misery, depression. I will deliver jobs, jobs, jobs, good ones too. Yesterday it was announced that last quarter when our economy, you know when this was announced, it was a tremendous announcement. The problem with it was that we didn’t get the kind of coverage that we should’ve. So in the history, think of it, in the history of our country, GDP went up to 33.1 in the history. And it was hardly mentioned. It’s amazing.. a friend of mine, very smart said to me, “Oh, they won’t talk about it.” It’s never been done before, right? “They won’t talk about it because they don’t want you to win because they’re sick and they’re corrupt. They don’t want you to win.”
In the last five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million jobs. The most jobs in a short period of time ever created. And we also built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. See all those hats? Make America great again again. Make America great again again. But if Biden wins, the recovery will end and a long economic nightmare. Just like he said on the debate, “You’re going to have a dark winter.” That was really depressing. It was even depressing even though he did so badly in the debate, I was depressed because I said, “It’s such a depressing thing he said.”
I like the last statement the best, right? Wasn’t that the best? We said, “That means you don’t want oil.” “Yes, we are going to get off oil.” I said, “I felt like Perry Mason.” You know it’s always that last question. It’s always the last question you know the guy, “Yes, I’m guilty. I’m guilty.” And then they end the show or they go to a commercial. I said, “This is the biggest thing that happened tonight.” And even Kristen Welker who I thought did a fair job. Okay? I really did. A lot of people thought she was much tougher on me, but that we expect. Okay?
And she looked at him and she goes because she’s on his side, not his side, she’s on a Democrat radical left side, but she still did a relatively fair job. She said, “Why did you say that?” It’s like why? Like, “Why the hell did you say that? What the hell is wrong? I’m protecting you all night and now you end the debate. Can we keep it going for another 20 minutes?” No, I didn’t want to do that. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing new jobs, opening your borders. He wants open borders. You don’t have borders, you don’t have a country.
And sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. We’re bringing them all back home, many of them home. Very, very few left. Were bringing them home. Got to fight the military-industrial complex. Eisenhower would talk about it all the time. The military-industrial complex. They don’t like them coming home, but they’ve been brought home and Afghanistan. 19 years I think as long enough, but we’re serving as policemen, right? We got the greatest soldiers in the world. We’re serving as policemen. They have to have their own policemen. We have our own policemen. They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest.
They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest. He’s a diehard globalist who cares nothing for the working people. He’s never cared for the working people. China’s been ripping you off for years, now you know why. He gets paid by China. He repeatedly tried to cut Medicare and Social Security. Over the years, Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, sending your auto jobs all over the place, but in particular to Mexico. Mexico is a big auto monster right now. USMCA, we did such a good job on that one.
He voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. One of the worst things that ever happened to our country. The best thing that ever happened to China. They were flatlined, and then they joined and they went like a rocket ship. Thank you very much, Joe. Great job you did, Joe. Gutting your industries to finance China’s rise. You see it. They still have empty buildings around. From your state in particular.
Half of all of Michigan auto manufacturing jobs were eliminated. Think of it. You lost 50% of your jobs because of these guys. It’s him and his group. And then he says, “We’re going to do this.” He’ll come and say, “Yes, we did this.” He did nothing. He destroyed your industry. But I brought it back and you are doing great. And now, amazingly, and I still haven’t figured this, one auto production’s much higher than it was before the pandemic. Could somebody in the auto business please explain that one to me? Because I’m taking full credit for it, but even I don’t get that one. I think you’re at 130%. You’re at 130%.
Look at that sea of people, I hope they can hear me over there. Housing starts and housing sales. It’s incredible. But the auto, it’s at a number that nobody can believe. You’re doing good. In other words, you’re all doing good. It’s a pandemic and you’re doing good. You got to get this governor. You got to get her to open. I am so tired of watching her husband go sailing. He wants to go sailing. He’s saying, “Darling, open up this state. I want to go sail.” But he was doing it before. And fortunately he got caught. Remember, he got caught? His neighbors turned him in. Can you believe it?
At every turn… I don’t think she likes me too much. What do you think? Do you think she likes me? I don’t think she likes me too much. And I’ve done a great job for her. You know what, on COVID, the China Virus, I’ve done a phenomenal job for her.
At every turn Biden twisted knife into the back of Michigan workers and workers all over the country. In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first, if that’s okay. Is that okay? If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for the great people of this country.
I’m not just running against sleepy Joe Biden, I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants. You see how crooked they are. How crooked are they? They made a mistake by not putting it… Here, you have the biggest story there is, corruption by Joe Biden. Forget about the son, by Joe Biden. But the son, the same thing. Look, even if Joe didn’t get the 10%, or the 50%, that he was promised, listen to this. The son walks in. He had nothing. He had no experience. He gets a job for 130,000 a month on Burisma, and he gets, they say, a $3 million upfront payment. That sounds reasonable. Would anybody else take that job? A month. And he knew nothing about energy. Other than that, it sounded fine.
Then he goes to China, he picks up $1.5 billion, he gets fees on that. That’s millions of dollars a year. And then they give him three and a half million from Moscow. The mayor of Moscow’s wife gives him three and a half million. You don’t even hear about this, because they refuse… In fact, they just turned the cameras off. They refuse…
You can’t have a scandal if they don’t report it. So the Times and the Washington Post and all of the fake news, CNN, look, they turned the cameras off. [crosstalk 00:04:50]. It’s a terrible thing. They turned the damn cameras off [crosstalk 00:24:04].
You know what happened? They go, “We’re here live at Joe Biden..” He’s doing a thing. There’s nobody there. I’m looking. They’re showing the sea of people, 25,000 people. They’re showing it’s like a sea, and the other one their looking and there’s nobody there. But they’ve gone to that rally, and Fox has gone to. I don’t know what the hell happened to Fox. What happened to Fox? Boy oh boy.
Well, we still have a few great ones at Fox. We still have a few great ones. It’s not like it used to be. Biden is the… That’s one of the biggest differences between this campaign and the campaign from four years ago. We’re doing better now than we ever did. There’s more enthusiasm. The crowds are much bigger. There’s more enthusiasm. But Fox is the big difference. Somewhere along the line we lost Fox, and that’s okay. That’s all right. But that’s the big difference.
The big techs, I’ll tell you, the big techs are much worse. When I heard how bad they were and I heard you can’t win without them, they’re so powerful. And then we won. I said, “Why are they powerful?” Now they’ve gone totally nuts.
Mark Morgan, one of our top people in the border, we’ve had a great border, he was showing how great the wall is. You know, we’re almost finished with the wall and how it’s working. And he said the success, you’ve probably heard this, he said the tremendous success that we’ve had… And all he’s doing is he’s not talking as a politician. He’s so proud of the job because people aren’t getting into our country, murderers and rapists and all, they’re not coming into our country anymore.
We’re working very closely with Mexico. They have 27,000 troops on the border. And Mark Morgan is explaining how great this wall has been. It’s going to be finished very soon, much sooner… They’re going crazy because they never thought we get it built. That’s why they don’t talk about it anymore. They don’t talk about the wall. They used to talk about it. Now they don’t talk about it anymore.
But Mark is talking about how incredible the border security… And they took down his tweet and they wanted to close him up. All he’s doing is saying we’re doing a good job and he’s not a politician. He’s saying he’s doing a good job. They took down his tweet and they got the hell knocked out of them, and they put it back up, I understand. But this is really bad.
They don’t do that to liberals. They don’t do it to liberals. They don’t ever do it. They don’t touch them. It’s very unfair. And a lot of things are happening. Biden is the candidate of anarchists and rioters and looters and gun grabbers, flag burners.
We out to put people in jail for a year when they burn our flag. What the hell is that all about? I see them burning a flag. They ought to have, you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. It would be amazing.
I signed the law. You knock down a statue or a monument, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s amazing how that stopped. It’s amazing how that stopped, isn’t it? But it’s the lobbyists, special interests.
I’m the candidate of police officers, the middle-class, law-abiding hardworking American patriots, and others. I mean, look, I think I’m the candidate of everybody. I think you got everybody here. I know a couple of rich people. Get them the hell out of here, we don’t want them.
This election will decide whether we restore the rule of a corrupt political class or whether we declare that in America we are still governed. We are the people. We govern. We govern. We’re the boss. We’re the people.
My opponent supported the job killing Transpacific Partnership. Would have destroyed your automobile business. And I ended it immediately. In fact, crooked Hillary was in favor of it and when she heard me speak about it, she immediately turned against it, but she would have done it.
He supported the horrendous South Korea Trade Deal that was supposed to produce 250,000 jobs. And it did, for South Korea. It wasn’t so good for us. I read negotiated it. We made it good. We made it good. We kept the 25% chicken tax. You know about the chicken tax, right? That’s on the small trucks. And you’re doing well with small trucks. That’s your best product from a profitability standpoint. It would have been a tremendous crushing blow to the auto workers. And I want to thank the auto workers because despite your leadership… Your leadership stinks, I’ll tell you. All they want is their dues. Pay us dues. They want an increase in dues. They like their life. They like this.
But the workers, the auto workers, they support me like crazy. The Teamsters, you have this guy Hoffa, he calls up, can you help him with a trucking company, some trucking company, big, beautiful company, great people, many, many thousands of employees. Can you help us with that? And I said, yeah, I can probably do it. I worked it out so that people didn’t lose their jobs. It kept the company going. I was very proud of it. I thought it was great.
Then I see he’s endorsing sleepy Joe Biden. Biden can’t get arrested. Although actually that’s turning out to be true. He can’t get arrested. We got to think about that one. He’s endorsing Joe Biden, but you know who’s endorsing me? You know who likes me? The teamsters like me, and everybody, all of the workers like me. Maybe he won’t run. I don’t think he’d win anyway if he ran.
Biden even supported the outrageous Fuel Economy Standards. You know that? That’s where every little ounce they suck every… For half a glass of gasoline, which we have plenty of right now, we have so much we don’t know what the hell to do with it. We had gasoline at one point selling for so little that if you took a barrel of gasoline, they gave you $36 with the barrel. It only lasted for two hours. But I was thinking about leaving government to go an get into that business.
That’s when the pandemic came in and all of a sudden people weren’t driving cars, et cetera. Little things like that. But we have a lot of gasoline. We have a lot of energy. We have great energy and we believe in all forms of energy. But when they want to turn off our great factories by doing what they’re doing, with people like AOC plus three, telling us how we’re supposed to run our country.
AOC plus three, I don’t think she ever went… She went to a college, right? Did she ever take an environmental course? All of a sudden she’s saying no more [inaudible 00:30:36] no more [inaudible 00:30:37]. I reversed each and every one of those disasters. Now Biden wants to reinstate it. He wants to re-institute… It took 20, 21 years, many highways and roadways, simple roadways, would take 20 years to get. I have it down to two years. It’s going to be one year and they may get rejected for environmental reasons or safety reasons, but now we’re building roads. We’re doing things that we could never have done before.
A vote for Biden is a vote to extinguish, demolish, and wipe out Michigan’s auto industry. And many of your other industries. Many of your other industries. A vote for me is to keep and create auto jobs and all sorts of jobs in Michigan, where they belong.
I ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with a brand new USMCA. Just kicked in. It just kicked in. You know how I know it’s good? Because Mexico and Canada aren’t so happy. They said, “Couldn’t we keep NAFTA?” I said, “No.” They said, “.ell, we want to. We demand it.” I said, “Okay, that’s okay. We’re going to put a 25% tariff on every car you send in.”
They said, “Like I said, wouldn’t we like to see the USMCA done?” No. I said to them, “If you want to keep it, you can. But I’m going to tariff the cars that come into this country.” So we made a great deal. We made a deal that’s good for Michigan and good for every… But just kicked in. Great for the farmers. It’ll bring tens of thousands of new jobs to Michigan. It’ll bring hundreds of thousands of new jobs to our country. And we won’t be ripped off like we were. And it’s a big disincentive for a company to go and close up their doors and move to Mexico, move to Canada. Now, if you do that, there’s a big price to pay.
That’s probably the primary reason I ran, if you want to know. I ran it for a lot of reasons. I ran because the last administration was no good, period. I say it all the time, Joe, I wouldn’t have run if it wasn’t for you. You guys were so bad, I ran.
When GM went bankrupt Biden and Obama threw the workers at Delphi Corporation… Any Delphi people here. Are you Delphi? Where’s Delphi? I tell you, I guarantee you they’re voting for Trump, right? They threw these people under the bus and days ago, I signed an order to restore the pensions and all of the other things for workers, not only Delphi, in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan, who were treated very unfairly, right?
Good. I figured if we had none here, I would have just said to hell with it. That’s good. All right, you’re going to be taken care of. They were promised by Obama. They were promised by Biden, actually, but then Biden realized he didn’t understand the deal. He wasn’t smart. He tried. He tried. Joe tried. He’s having a hard time.
I tell you, I see these people and the level of viciousness. You see this character in 16 minutes, screaming, Savannah Guthrie screaming, screaming, all of them screaming. And then I see sleepy Joe walk out. “What flavor ice cream is it?” He looks down. He actually had a hard time with that question.
I said, they don’t ask me questions like that. They don’t do it. How about when they give them the questions? That’s worse, when he reads them off. They give him a question. This is the people I deal with all the time. They’re crazy maniacs. I deal with them all the time. They ask me things that are just terrible.
I’ve been doing this for a long time. They asked me very, very dangerous, horrible questions. And with him, it’s like, they give him the questions in advance and he puts it on a teleprompter. Just like that. They give him a question. Then he goes, “Could you move that a little closer?”
And when I see that, I said, that means that he has the questions. Not since the Hillary Clinton scandal, when she got… Remember? Who now that wonderful person that did it, Donna Brazile, is now working for Fox. So that was a great hire. That was a great hire. Let’s hire Donna Brazile, who got fired by CNN and gets hired by Fox. What’s that all about? Do you think there’s some changes going on at Fox? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Let’s hire the person that cheated with Hillary Clinton.
Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. The Biden family is looking more and more like a crime family and they don’t want to. It’s called the laptop from hell. The laptop from hell. They took millions of dollars from the Chinese Communists while Vice-President Biden shipped Michigan jobs to China. How the hell can you have somebody fighting for you against China? And he’s getting money. Him and his family are getting millions and millions of dollars from China.
Yesterday, press reports, I don’t know about this, but press reports came out yesterday, said the Biden family is under FBI investigation for a long time for money laundering. For money laundering. If Biden wins, China… How do you have it where they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from Communist China, and then he’s going to be your president and he’s going to make a deal like I do? Nobody has done what I’ve done, including GS Steel, where they were dumping steel. And I charged them a tariff of 25%, and our steel companies came back. And the 25% was just the beginning. But our steel companies come back. I mean, they all came back.
When we win, Michigan wins. When we win, America wins. And that’s what I want. That’s all I want. That’s all I want. I had a very good life before this. People think this is easy. You make a telephone call and these really dishonest people they impeach you on a perfect call. “How you doing? Congratulations on your win.” A man, I never even spoke to. “I’d like to congratulate you on your win.” He just became the President of Ukraine. Let’s impeach him for that. These people are sick.
But you know, the Republicans stuck together. 197 to nothing in Congress. 52 and a half. 52 and a half. A half. Does anybody know who the half was? Biden didn’t know. Remember? He said, “The man from Utah. What’s his name?” He didn’t know. He forgot the name of the man. He’s only worked with him for about 35 years. Something going on up there.
He won’t be there long. He’s not going to be there at all because our country will be destroyed. Honestly, we can’t play games. We can’t play games. We have the potential. We have more potential as a country than we’ve ever had. We can’t have a guy like this in there. The guy doesn’t have a clue. He doesn’t. And they’ll say things that are unbelievable. He’ll say things about me. They do an ad about me that is so false. And you can’t do a thing about it. And we put them a notice, we said it was false. It was all false. We put them a very strong legal notice. They keep it going. They figure, what the hell, the thing’s over with in five days, why should we change it?
I’m telling you, those are bad people. That’s why…
Why should we change it? I’m telling you, those are bad people. That’s why I say, “I’m just going to tell you the truth.” I’ll tell you the truth, but here’s the differences. This is the truth. He’s shot. Okay? He’s shot. And it’s not because of his age because at 78 or whatever it is, I know a lot of people that are 85, I know a person 92, Bernie Marcus, 92, Home Depot. He’s perfect. In fact, I tell him I think he’s sharper now than he was 45 years ago, if you want to know. No, it’s not the age. They say age. It’s not the age. A lot of people in their 80s, even their 90s are sharp. This guy is mentally shot.
One of the biggest issues for Michigan, other than that, let’s keep it going, is this election, is … And you know what? One of your very big is the whole refugee situation, right? I know it’s a big deal here. To protect our national security, earlier this week, I suspended the entry of refugees from foreign nations compromised by terrorism. So you saw what’s going on in France, right? You saw that. And they had another big attack last night, a really bad one. If it’s okay with you, if it’s okay with the great people of Michigan, you got to give me approval, we are keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. I remember I was in the campaign and I’m running against this guy named Ben Carson. And he was tough. He was tough. No, he was. He was tough. And he made a statement somewhat similar to that. And everybody said, “Oh, he’s going to have to leave the campaign.” I said, “No, he’s not. His poll numbers just went way up, I’ll bet.” Next day, what did they go up? Like seven, eight, nine points. I said, “See?” Then I had to start really worrying about this guy. He went up. Everyone said you had to leave. Right, Candy? He has to leave the campaign. I said, “No, no, it’s actually going to be good for him.” We don’t want to be used. We don’t want to be taken advantage of. And I got passed. I got passed a ban. It’s a ban on people coming in from certain countries that are horrible countries where they hate us and the people hate us. Right?
And one of the reasons we’re going to go, I’m going there later, we have a governor and attorney general, we have 25,000 people want to go in Minnesota. Right? One of the reasons we’re going to win … And they want us to have 250 people. Well, that’s a slight difference. We have 25,000 people, but they have a rule you can’t have more than 250 people for a political event. So they’re scamming us. So you know what? That maybe will give us the final victory. We haven’t won Minnesota since 1972. Okay? That’s a long time, which will tell you the odds. That’s not good odds. But we’re very popular because I helped with that disaster in Minneapolis. We got the guys in there. And what did it take? About 25 minutes, it was over. They should have called a long time before they went through two weeks of hell. And that’s what we do. The federal governments are always prepared to come in. If you had problems, the federal government is always prepared to come in. We will extinguish those problems very, very quickly.
And we’ll always come in. And some people say, “It’s not politically correct to say that.” Yeah, it’s politically correct. I thought it was a beautiful sight. They lined up. This is after a week and a half of terror. Remember, you had that idiot anchor from CNN standing, “This has been a friendly protest.” And over his shoulder, it looked like Berlin in its worst day during the war. The worst day they ever had. But no, they told us we could only have 250 people. So they thought I’d cancel. “Oh, this is really great. Trump will cancel.” No. I’m going to go and I’ll have 250. That’s like the first row. I’ll have 250 people and they’ll have a lot of people outside, but I don’t want them to stand outside. It’s colder there than it is now. But it’s very cold and very horrible because the president of the United States is going to Minnesota to talk to people and they’re suppressing it. And they think that’s good, but I don’t. That shows weak leadership by the governor and very unfair leadership by the attorney general.
One thing I’ll say about that attorney general, I have to say this, he was the first one, he and a couple of people, he was sitting down being interviewed by George Stephanopoulos or somebody. And he said, no, and he was a vice chairman of the Democrat party. And you know who I’m talking about. And he said, “Trump is going to win.” This was right after I came down the escalator with our future first lady. Right? That beautiful trip. Beautiful. No. And he said, “Trump is going to win.” “No, no, no. You’re kidding. Why? Why?” “No, no. Trump is going to win.” So I realized then he’s a very smart person. He turned out to be right about that one. Didn’t he, Nigel? The great Nigel.
We’re working to help the Chaldean Christian community also, by the way. We’re working to help them. We’re working to help them. Are you Chaldean? Oh wow. Good. Oh, good. All right. No, we’re working to help. We’re going to help. We’re going to help. We’ve been working on it for 25 years, just like I did with Israel and so many other things. These guys, they talk, talk, talk, nothing ever gets done. Chaldean American, what are you going to show me there? You opened your jacket. Look at this. Oh. Now I like the Chaldeans even more. Oh, that’s good. You know what? They have great support. They have great support. They have great support. Good. Thank you very much. They do have great support. But hey look, it’s a wild life.
Biden has pledged a staggering 700, this is with Bernie Sanders and the manifesto, we call it. That’s the deal with Bernie, Crazy Bernie. And I mean, he lost twice now. Guy’s the greatest loser I’ve ever seen. No, he loses. He doesn’t even complain about it. Just goes back into Congress, he votes. He holds up his hand, radical, anything radical. The guy, I’ve never seen a guy like that. He get treated very badly by the Democrats with Hillary, then he runs again. Is Bernie Sanders going to run again in four years? Does anybody? I don’t know. He’s all right. I’ll tell you one thing, he fights like hell, right? Who would have been easier? Him or Sleepy Joe? I don’t know. No, he has a smaller base, but they have energy. Joe has a bigger base, but there’s zero energy, right? Now, we have a really big base and we have more energy than anybody. Right?
A 700% increase in refugees from the most dangerous terrorist spots anywhere in the world, including Syria, Somalia, where Omar, Omar, that’s the other reason I’m going to win. Omar. Ilhan. Ilhan Omar. She loves our country very much. And Yemen, right? No, she’s going to help me win. She’s going to protest when I go up there. And I’ll say, “Thank you very much. Every time you protest, it’s got to add about 25% of the vote.” She’s telling us how to run our country. And she doesn’t love our country, that I can tell you. The Biden plan will turn Michigan into a refugee camp. If you look at what they want to do, this is agreed to with Bernie Sanders in that group, a 700% increase. A lot of you people would say, “No, thank you.” He has also vowed to terminate our national security travel bans, allowing unlimited migration from deadly war zones and terrorist havens. You’re all sitting here saying, “I think I’m changing my vote. I think we’ll go with Trump.”
That I even have to do this, I will say this, and it’s terrible but before this COVID, there’s about 24 names, right? China plague, China virus, but we have about 20. Well, let’s just call it the China virus. Before the China virus came, we were going to have the easiest campaign in history. I was up so much. Now I got to work, right? I have to work. And that’s okay. Actually, I think people respect it even more. They respect it even more. But it has, it’s affected politics and leadership all over the world. I mean, people that were very popular all over. Because it’s uphill. But we’ve handled it well. Our people have done an incredible job. Our generals. I mean, look at the vaccines. Hey, excuse me, look at me. I go in, “Sister, I wasn’t feeling too good.” And they gave me something called Regeneron. The next morning, sister, I woke up and it was like God touched my shoulder. Right? I said, “Let me at them.” I said, “Give me a trade deal for Michigan. I want to go and renegotiate a trade there.”
No, what they’ve done is incredible in a short period of time, six months. I mean, they’d never even heard of this drug. And now Eli Lilly’s also doing something similar. We have things coming out that are amazing. And even the Times wrote today people are getting better. People are getting better because of what’s happening. And for the Times to write that, that’s a very, very hard thing for them to write. You would’ve thought they would’ve waited a few days, actually. Let’s wait. Let’s put out that story on the 4th of November. And you know that everything’s COVID covered. You know that. You turn on the news. COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID.
And cases are up. Why are cases up? Because we test more than anybody in history. I mean, we have tests on top of tests. We’d like another test. We got 19 different versions. And we test much more than India. They have 1.5 billion people. And many countries don’t test at all. Many countries don’t test at all. But we test more. But deaths are way down. And people are getting better. But I’m an example of it. My wife is an example of it. First lady. And Baron Trump, young, very young, 14. He’s my very tall 14 year old boy. He’s tall. He’s a tall guy. But he’s a strong guy. And he tested, the doctor said, “Sir, Baron has tested positive.” The doctors here, Sean, great doctor, said, “He’s tested positive.” I said, “Positive for what?” Said, “COVID.” I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” He said, “No, he’ll be okay.” Like 15 minutes later, “How’s Baron doing, Doc?” “Oh, it’s okay. He’s fine now.” No, they have strong immune. Now they’ll say, “He exaggerated the time.” They’re so sick. They’re so sick.
You know what I said? I got myself into trouble with that also. Great gentlemen from England. I said that refugees are coming in and they’ll promise him more than they give our citizens. They said, “We’re going to give you healthcare. We’re going to give you a free education. And every refugee that comes in will get a free Rolls Royce.” And CNN went crazy. They said, “President Trump lied. They’re not getting a Rolls Royce.” It’s true. They took it very seriously. You can’t be sarcastic. You can’t have a little bit of fun. Because if you do, you look very bad. No, they said, “It’s not true about the Rolls Royce.” But at 800,000 a pop, I would say probably not. No, CNN took that very seriously.
Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, crash the economy, and shut down our entire country. Under the Biden lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdose, deferred medical care. So many things happen, abuse. I mean, what’s happening? There will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmas, no 4th of July. There’ll be no nothing. There’ll be no future. Other than that, it’s quite a good plan, I think. Biden doesn’t have a clue. Look, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. Always remember that.
Biden wants to keep everyone locked up, even young Americans who are at extremely low risk from the virus. He wants to steal the dreams and the futures of our youngest citizens. And when a child loses a year of his life because he’s locked in, and one thing we have found, telehealth has been great and a lot of the … But when you’re looking at a laptop, it’s not nearly as good as sitting in a classroom. That has been determined. It’s not good. It’s not the same. And we’re keeping these kids away from school and that’s something. I mean, it’s great in some instances and telehealth is one of them. But when it comes to school, we’ve learned very strongly, it’s not the same. Which is why I’m going to win. We’re going to win with a record number. I think there’s a vote out there that is incredible.
Let me ask you a question. Who has voted by ballot or who has voted so far? Okay. Who is going to vote on Tuesday? Good. It’s a funny thing. We tell our people, “Go out and vote.” We’re not big into the ballot world. We sort of don’t like it. Okay? Because too many tricks get played like they find Trump ballots in a wastepaper basket, they find them in dumpsters, they found some in the river. Lovely. Look, all those ballots. Oh, they happen to be Trump ballots. Now they’re finding them all over the place. 500 incorrect applications get sent to Virginia. The beauty was they sent many ballots to a certain state. They were only defective in one way. They didn’t have the name Trump on it. In other words, if you wanted to vote for Trump, what do you do? I guess you’re supposed to write it out? Then they’ll say, “You can’t do that.” No, it’s a crooked deal. It’s a crooked deal. It’s a very sad thing. We like going to vote.
And the other thing, funny, they don’t want to vote. I could say, “Go to vote on Saturday, on Sunday or Monday.” They really want to vote on election day. I like it. And we are going to have a red wave the likes of which has never been seen. And let me give the Democrats the bad news. Their vote is under what they thought they needed.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. But their votes are under, they’re not performing like they should. They’ll probably drop some of the ballots and sign them real quick. I could just see the governor of Nevada. I’m sure he never did this but, “Get me some ballots. We’re losing, here.” Because they don’t want to have any signature verification in Nevada. The governor, he was a political guy. He ran the political club. So he’s a beauty. So they don’t want to have any verification of a signature. So if they’re losing, they’ll say, “Get me some ballots real quick. I’ll sign them myself.” No.
I went to vote. I voted. And I went into a place in Palm Beach and I said … The woman said, “Sir, may I please see your identification?” It’s true. But I wanted that. I mean, I wanted. So I took out a passport. “Sir, do you have any other form of identification?” I said, “Are you serious?” I said, “No.” But I did. I gave her something else. And I sat and I filled out the form. I mean, there was no way you could cheat. There was no way. I mean, it was really good. It was really professional. And other people that come in, it was so nice. And we should have voter ID, by the way, voter ID. The whole country.
And thanks to our relentless efforts, only 3% of ER visits nationwide, right? Are related to the virus. So 3% of hospital rooms, emergency rooms, 3% are related right now exactly, just came out last night, 3% to the virus. A lot of people, you read about cases, but now they’re young people, they’re college students, they’re younger than college students. But they love the word case because cases have gone up. They don’t say that it’s a 14 year old kid or that it’s a 20 year old student. I mean, you go under 70 and you go under certain ages and it’s 99.9%. It’s a whole different thing. But they don’t like to talk. But I see it’s always cases are up and people go crazy. No, you live with it and you know what to do. We understand it now. You got to understand it. But we’re making that beautiful turn. And the vaccines are coming.
Due to our groundbreaking therapies, the fatality rate is down 85%. Think of that. And our excess mortality rate is 42% lower than Europe. They kept saying, “Germany, Germany, Germany.” First of all, they have different ways of counting. In Germany, if you have a bad heart and you’re ready to die, or if you have cancer and you’re going to be dying soon and you catch COVID, that happens, we mark it down to COVID. Our doctors get more money if somebody dies from COVID. You know that, right? I mean, our doctors, they’re very smart people. So what they do is they say, “I’m sorry, but everybody dies of COVID.” But in Germany and other places, if you have a heart attack or if you have cancer, you’re terminally ill, you catch COVID, they say you died of cancer. You died of heart attack. With us, when in doubt, choose COVID.
It’s true. No, it’s true. Now they’ll say, “Oh, it’s terrible what he said.” But that’s true. It’s like $2,000 more. So you get more money. This could only happen to us where cases are now surging. And if you look at Europe, they’re surging despite these draconian lockdowns. They have it locked down and they’re surging. So what happens-
… the lockdown, and they’re surging. So what happens is if you get it, stay away. If you get it, you’re going to get better and then you’re going to be immune and it’s a whole thing and it goes away, but the vaccines will help. But don’t take my word for it because we have a video and I wanted to show you a little video, we only do this to people we really like because this thing cost a lot of money. So we have a very little and very quick video, but it’s very descriptive and it talks a little bit about sleepy Joe. Okay.
Fact is every time I’ve called the President, he’s quickly gotten on the line. When we asked to get support for that mercy ship in Southern California, he was able to direct that in real time.
What the federal government did working with states was a phenomenal accomplishment.
We got 2000 of these field medical sites that are almost all operational now in the state because of his support, and those are the facts.
His team has been on it. I know a team when they’re on it and I know a team when they’re not on it. His team is on it. They’ve been responsive late at night, early in the morning.
We are working very well with FEMA Region 2 and with the Army Corps of Engineers building four field hospitals. And that was the decision the President himself took and I’m grateful for it.
These were just extraordinary efforts and acts of mobilization and the federal government stepped up, we needed help and they were there.
He said everything that I could have hoped for. And we had a very long conversation and every single thing he said, they followed through on it.
We’ve got to have doubled the number of ventilators that we requested to that area of the state. And in fact, we got them in, frankly, short order.
Have we lost anymore because we didn’t have a bed, or we didn’t have a ventilator, or we didn’t have healthcare staff? No.
The President was extending support for new swabs. So a conversation, commitment, promise made promise kept.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA.
I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced the merch and workers to compete against people making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The President is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
Rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world.
Rising China is a positive, positive development.
It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper.
We want to see China rise.
China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion.
China is not our enemy.
We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping.
The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre
The idea that they are our competition and they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks.
China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which you supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better, the USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plans. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along during a quickie escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Okay here’s the deal, one of the things that is important is that… Keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on… [inaudible 01:01:36], I think today.
That was terrifying.
What kind of country we going to be four more years of George… we going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t know what to tell you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. But that said it all, that’s easier than talking for half hour. It says [inaudible 00:05:26], clue where he is. Where joined by [inaudible 01:02:32] Ben Carson and is incredible wife Candy, Candy Carson. Thank you very much. Thank you Ben [inaudible 01:02:39] great job he does. What a [inaudible 01:02:40] man. Congressional candidate [inaudible 00:05:44], I hear he’s doing great. Paul Young, Paul. That’s great, Paul, I hear it’s going good, you’re winning. I’m hearing good things, you’re going to win. And Erik Esshaki. Erik, thank you Erik. Thank you very much. Good luck, Erik, heard you’re doing really… We need these two guys, please vote for them. And Michigan GOP Chair, Laura Cox, thank you. Are we winning Laura? I see we’re up, we’re just up in the poll by three points. Good, so carry it in. I mean three points, how the hell you beat this guy by three points. Is that a win? I don’t know. Hey, if it’s one vote, we’ll take it, right? We got to win. We got to win. Michigan is very important. Michigan, it’s very important for Michigan that we win.
For 47 years, Joe Biden betrayed the African-American community. Biden devastated black families with his disastrous 1994 Crime Bill that came up very much in the debate. He called young black men, “Super predators,” and he did it all the time. I gave former prisoners a second chance by signing our landmark Criminal Justice Reform that Biden couldn’t do and Obama couldn’t do. Joe Biden flooded black neighborhoods with illegal foreign labor and I’m providing black neighborhoods with billions of dollars in thanks with our Opportunity Zones, which have turned out to be incredible. Tim Scott, Opportunity Zones have been incredible, what they’ve done for communities and for Hispanic, black workers. Under our Platinum Plan we’ll create 3 million new jobs for black Americans, restore safety to every neighborhood and we’ll deliver school choice to every parent in America. Right? Good.
And in conclusion, I just want to say, it’s been an honor to be with you, this is incredible. It’s cold out here, it’s cold, I’d say it’s a little cold. But over the years, and over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end the reliance on China once and for all, that’s already started. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will end the big tech monopoly and restore freedom of speech. We will defend religious liberty, the right to life and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices even more. We have done something nobody’s done, 52 years, last year, drug prices went down, but now they’re going to go down at a very high rate because we’re doing favored nations. The drug companies don’t like me too much, I will tell you. We will protect Social Security and Medicare and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American Flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
For years, you had a president who apologized for America, now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan. See now, a lot of times migrants… and standing up for the great people of Morrow, Ohio, Ohio? No it’s Michigan, that’s happened seven times. You can’t do that, you can’t let that happen, you can’t let that happen. We did not come this far and fight this hard only to surrender our country back to the Washington swamp. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out to vote, get out to vote. Got to do it. Got a big day, Tuesday. Don’t even do it on Monday, my people said, “Oh, let them go Monday, Sunday. Don’t worry about it, just do it like you like to do it. Just do it. Tuesday’s good.
On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all, nobody ever said it was going to be that deep. Nobody ever said it was going to be that deep and that vicious, but we’re knocking the hell out of them, they don’t know what the hell is going on [inaudible 01:08:05]. It’s been tough for them too, they never had a thing like this. From Midland to Mackinac, from Lansing to Grand Rapids, and from Battle Creek to right here in Waterford Township, nice, we inherit the legacy of Michigan patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line, think of that. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg’s revolutionized entire industries, what a state. Michigan gave us Motown, the Mustang, and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country, we are returning power to you, the American people. It’s what I said I was going to do. With your help, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Michigan, go out and vote. Thank you.
Hello, Florida. It is wonderful to be here in our home state. Thank you for taking the time to be here and for supporting the administration. We love you too. For those of you who are still deciding who to vote for on Tuesday, I hope that what I have to say would prove to you that a vote for President Trump is a vote for a better America. In a time when hate, negativity, and fear are the messages the media streams into our homes and the large tech companies are protecting political censorship, we need to remember what is really important. My husband’s administration is focused on the future. The health and safety of the American people, the education and wellbeing of our children, the safety and security of our streets and communities, and the protection of our fundamental family values.
Under Donald’s leadership, we have blocked out the noise and focused on you, the American people. Under my husband’s leadership, our nation is respected again, our borders are safer, we have won wars, and we have stayed out of new conflicts. We have made historic peace deals in the Middle East. We didn’t just talk about it, we moved our embassy to Jerusalem. The president stands with our friend, Israel, more than any other president before. Our allies are now doing their fair share globally. Our economy soared and unemployment shrunk. Our military is stronger than ever. Opportunities for women and especially working mothers expanded in our work force. Healthcare for every citizen remains a priority for him. And as you have seen over these past years, he won’t stop until he gets it done.
We have a law an order president. Donald fights to protect and support all our people. He also fully supports our men and women in uniform while others are calling to defund them. We have faith in our judges and our legal system to rule justly. We respect our heritage and we condemn all hate. We should always learn from our past. And it is more important than ever that we never forget it. Under this president, our American values and ideals are protected, cherished, and upheld. We have had three incredible years of making America great again. In early 2020, our …
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
In early 2020, our nation began feeling the effects of a global pandemic, a virus that invaded our nation. And no one really understood. Now, because of our amazing medical capabilities and resources, we are in the process of developing powerful therapeutics and vaccine. A vaccine is not a partisan issue. If you are not supporting the safe production of a vaccine, you’re not supporting the health and safety of the American people. There is no room to play politics on this topic in the midst of pandemic. I want to take this moment to say thank you to the many amazing frontline workers who are with us today. Thank you for all that you are doing. You keep our most vulnerable citizens safe. Our administration fully supports you and will continue to work tirelessly to ensure that you are equipped with all the medical supplies you need. This administration also continue working to develop safer procedures and practices so that children can get back in the classroom. So that businesses can continue reopening and people can start earning an income again. This president and his team are focused on not only destroying the virus and building back the economy, they’re focused on the creating ways for people to safely stop isolating and start gathering with friends again on a safe distances. This is about mental health as much as it is physical. We are a country of hope, not a country of fear or weakness. And we have a leader who shows us that every single day. President Trump chooses to move this country forward. This country deserves a president with proven results, not empty words and promises. On Tuesday, the direction our country will take is in your own hands. I ask that you join us in continuing to put America first. Together, we will overcome this pandemic and continue building the brightest future for generations to come.
Thank you. God bless you all. God bless your families. It is now my pleasure to welcome the president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Wow. Thank you very much. That was a little bit of a surprise. That was a surprise. Thank you, Melania. Good job. They love our first lady. They love our first lady. And America is blessed to have you. Thank you very much, honey. That was great. So I’m thrilled to be here in my, our, home state, Florida. I love this state and I love the people of this state. And five days from now, we are going to win Florida and we are going to win four more years in the White House. And we’re going on to win a record share of the Hispanic American vote. You see what’s happening.
Ah, they’re very concerned back there. The fake news, they are so concerned. Melania, you don’t know too much about them. You’ve seen enough. But they are very unhappy. You know what’s happening, don’t you? You see what’s happening? We’ve led Florida every single day. What’s going on? This is a terrible thing for them. Actually, it’s a good thing for them. They just don’t know it. They haven’t quite figured that out yet. No, we’re doing incredibly in Florida. We’re doing incredibly all over. And this isn’t based on polls, this is based on facts. This is based on votes that are coming in. But you have to get out and vote. We are creating the greatest red wave in the history of our country.
Oh, it’s been amazing. We’ll talk about it a little while. I want to get some of the little introductions and introductory things out, but we have to talk about what’s going on in our country with the big tech, the power of big tech. They’re incredible. They’re incredible. No, no, no. I heard about the power for a long time. The power of big tech. I heard about it four years ago. “Sir, big tech is against you. They’re tremendously powerful. You can’t beat them.” Then we had the election and we won. I said, “Oh, how did that happen?” And the fake news media, 94% of the stories about us are negative. Think of it. Think of it. 64% of the stories about Sleepy Joe are positive. How the hell do you have a positive story about this guy? How do you have a positive story about him?
This election is a choice between my plan to deliver historics. And you know what this is going to be, right? Historic. This is historic prosperity. Another major tax cut to go along with the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. And record job growth. And Joe Biden’s plan is to deliver punishing lockdown. She’s going to lock you down. And Florida’s all opened up. You have a great governor. Did he speak too long today or not? No? No, I watched him on the plane. I said, “Oh, look, there’s Ron.” They have the little thing in the box. I said, “Oh look, there’s Ron. He’s speaking.” He looked like he was up there a long time. She said yes. He’s a great governor. You have a great governor. He’s a great guy.
They want to give you massive tax hikes. The first time that I’ve ever seen … I’ve been with politics all my life, essentially. Only doing this for a few years on this side of it. But we’ve done well, haven’t we? What do you think? A senator came into my office, said, “Sir.” An older guy, nice guy, pro, total pro. “Sir, I’ve been in nine races and I’ve won seven of them. So now I’m a United States Senator.” I said, “Senator, I’ve been in one race and I’ve won one. Now we want to win two. But I won one. But it was the presidency.” We took them all by surprise, didn’t we? We took them by surprise. They’re still trying to recover.
And you will have a crippling depression, the likes of which you’ve never seen, if Sleepy Joe becomes your president. And your 401Ks, throw them out the window because you know what’s going to happen. And you know our stock market has a big headwind. The headwind is if he wins, and we are doing great. You see the number today? 33.1 GDP. The biggest in the history of our country by almost triple, right? Almost triple. Now it’s very much bigger than any GDP we’ve ever had. You have to go back to the 1950s, and then it’s less than half. This is the greatest number, 33.1%. If you asked me two weeks ago, I would’ve said I’ll take 12%. 12% would have been very nice. Nobody ever heard of 12%. 33.1. And let me tell you what they’re going to do. I never even thought of this one. They won’t even talk about it. This is the biggest event in business in 50 years. Nobody’s ever seen a number like this. This is bigger than any nation. No nation has a number like that.
Other nations right now, they’re … Look, we were compared to Europe. Germany is doing so well, France is doing so well, everyone’s doing so well. No, they’re not doing well. And you take a look at what’s going on. And we want the best for them, we’re on their team. We want to work with them and everything else, but they’re not doing well. They’re spiking up big, they’re shutting down, they’re locking down. I disagree with that because we’re never going to lockdown again. We locked down, we understood the disease. And now we’re open for business. And that’s what it is. And that’s what it is. This explosive economic growth is four times greater than what the experts expected. They expected a number that would be like 7%, 8%.
But here’s what’s going to happen. You’re going to go back home. You’re going to say, “That was incredible. Melania was unbelievable. The governor was incredible. I’ve never heard anybody speak like that. Trump was okay too. But we have no choice. We have to vote for Trump because it’s between Trump and Sleepy Joe. And anybody beats Sleepy Joe.” I can take a couple of these guys, they’re friends of mine. They’re not good people. They’re better than Joe. I will tell you. Now, do you believe what I’m running against? I’m running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. I don’t care. Win, lose, or draw. This is the worst candidate in the history. He shouldn’t be there. Because Pocahontas kept going instead of getting out. Then it would have been against Bernie, which would have been fine too. You know what? You would have had a more energetic base if we had Bernie. That’s one thing. Because I don’t know if they have a base.
Here’s what’s happened. He goes for a speech. They’re showing you thousands. And look, as far as all the way back to that building, as far as the eye can see. And Biden is leaving his basement today, he took the lid off. You know what he does? He takes the lid off, runs to the closest part of Delaware, like if he can get a little piece of Pennsylvania. People in Pennsylvania are wise to him. They know all about his no fracking, no fracking, no fracking. Then he gets to Pennsylvania. He learns it’s a million jobs. And by the way, Pennsylvania, they give us that you can fire up your factories. They give us the energy. And it’s inexpensive energy. So he goes to Pennsylvania. All of a sudden, he changes. “Yeah, so I have nothing against fracking.” And the press doesn’t call him out on it. Right? And they don’t call them out on where’s Hunter? They don’t call him out, where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter in the crowd? They don’t call him out. They don’t call him out on where’s Hunter?
It’s crazy. It’s crazy. Some people said, I get a call from all the experts, right? Guys that ran for president six, seven, eight times. Never got past the first round, but they’re calling me up, “Sir, you shouldn’t be speaking about Hunter. You shouldn’t be saying bad things about Biden because nobody cares.” I disagree. Maybe that’s why I’m here and they’re not. But they say, ” Talk about your economic success. Talk about 33.1%, the greatest in history.” Now, look, if I do, I mean, how many times can I say it? I’ll say it five or six times during the speech. 33.1.
But you look at that and you look at Tucker Carlson, what he did the other night. Great. Great. And followed up by Sean and followed up by Laura. And the next day, nothing at all, right? Nothing. Nothing in the New York Times, the fake New York Times. Hey, how about Anonymous? Did we see Anonymous? A low staffer. Anonymous turned out to be a guy. I’m trying to figure out, I don’t know who the hell this guy is. So the New York Times said, “A senior white house official.” Nobody knew who he was. Look, we are in big trouble with the press. They are truly the enemy of the people. They are the enemy of the people.
So this guy goes out, this low life. Well, I never saw him. I think he has a picture of me standing there like I do with thousands of people. This low life goes out and he writes a book. By the way, when he left, he had nothing but praise for the Trump. Oh, it’s incredible. Incredible. Then somebody gets him at the New York Times, the fake New York Times. And all of a sudden, he becomes nasty and he writes. And they say, “A top White House official.” Well, he was a staffer, low, had nothing to do with the White House. He had nothing to do. And he goes in, and you know what? There should be major criminal liability for some scum like this.
And for a year, everybody walks into my office, Secretary of State Pompeo. I could name every one of them, all good people. I’m looking at them and say, “I wonder if that could be the one.” And it turns out to be this low life that nobody knows who the hell he is. He had nothing to do with us. I don’t think I ever met him. And I might’ve met him. I think somebody said he has a picture of me standing someplace. This is a disgrace to our country. It shouldn’t happen. And he should be prosecuted. Are you listening to me back in Washington? He should be prosecuted along with the New York Times because it was a story made up, it was fake news made up by the New York Times. And you know who he works for now? CNN. He works for CNN Right there. See the camera right there with the light that just went off? See that, honey? That red light just went off. Fake news, CNN.
And Anderson Cooper asked him, “Are you Anonymous?” And he lied to him. He said, “No,” essentially. Said, “No, I’m not.” And he works for CNN. I would think CNN would be firing him for that, but this is a real low life. You know who else he works for? Google. He works for Google. I think Google should fire him very quickly because bad things are going to happen to him. But think of what he does to our government. Right? It’s like a horrible, treasonous, horrible thing that you can do this and you can get away with it.
Weekly jobless claims, this is boring but it’s really good, just hit a seven month low. In other words, from the beginning of the pandemic seven months ago. We’re going to have next year the best year we’ve ever had economically. And it’s true. Biden is holding back the stock market because it’s an election, crazy things can happen. Maybe 100% of the people in Florida decide not to vote. You never know. But we have a headwind. So it’s gone down a little bit over the last few days because you’re coming close. And it could be. We’re going to win this election so big. You watch. You watch. We’re going to win so big. And that’s the only reason the market’s going down. The market’s going down because if he gets in, seriously, you’re going to have one of the worst depressions we’ve ever had. You’re going to have. And John Roberts from Fox is back there. And I think he agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want-
He agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want his 401K to go down the tubes. No, John’s treated us very fairly. Not perfect. He’s not perfect, I will say, but he’s been overall pretty good. He’s pretty good. So, CNN, Google, we got to do something about all of it. New York Times is fake. It’s fake. They write so many fake stories. Thanks to our policies, America is experiencing the fastest and biggest recovery. We’re having the best recovery anywhere in the world. No other country, small or large is recovering like us. Think of that. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs, the fastest job growth in the history of our country. Our job growth has been 23 times faster than the first five months under Obama/Biden recovery, which was, by the way, the worst recovery since the Great Depression. You do know that, right?
And just so you know, because all Biden does is talks about COVID. Right? He doesn’t call it the China virus. You know why? Because China has him paid off. He can’t use that term. They gave his son one and a half billion to manage. He makes millions of dollars a year, I assume. Right? The smartest guys in Wall Street said, “No, sir, that could not have happened. We can’t get it.” No, took him about, what, 10 minutes? He walked in, he walked out with one and a half billion. Hey, maybe he’s not so stupid after all. Right? That’s the only thing. I thought he was so dumb. Maybe he’s not as dumb as we think. Look, he cannot take on China. I didn’t say anything. I didn’t say… The biggest story, no, the second biggest story, the worst was when they spied on my campaign and they got caught. That’s the biggest political corruption story in the history of our country, but this could very well be second. And we have what’s called the laptop from hell, the laptop from hell. From what I’ve understood, you only have seen a tiny portion of it, but you know what the press is now doing? They’re blaming Russia. It’s Russia did it. Russia is the one that created the laptop. And Russia brought it into that little shop to have it fixed. Russia. I think Russia’s looking at us, they’re saying, “Those people are stone cold crazy. This is…” No, it was Russia’s fault. They said it. Loud and clear. It was Russia, Russia, Russia. Aren’t we tired of this crap?
I saw a Schiff the other day, two days ago, watermelon, he looks like a watermelon head. Right? Remember he lied in the halls of Congress. He read my conversation with the president of Ukraine, but it wasn’t my conversation. Hey, how great do we love those people that took down the language, professional military people, word for word for word. If I didn’t have it, it would have been my word against shifty Schiff. Right? Eight times he said quid pro quo. Think of what that means. Eight times you’ve asked for the same thing. After the third time, the guy on the other side would say, “He’s got some serious problems.” I don’t even know him. I called him to say congratulations on becoming president of Ukraine, and for that, I got impeached.
But you know what we have, we have a lot of great Republicans, and I hope you’re going to be voting for those Republicans, also. Great Republicans. We have one of them here, Mark Meadows. Has anyone ever heard of Mark Meadows? Took me three years to get them out of Congress and become chief of staff. He’s great. He’s here. He was one of our great ones. And you know who helped me a lot? Honestly, in fact, I said, “Don’t run for governor, Ron. Stay exactly where…” He was a Congressman, your governor. Right? There he is. Look at Mark. He’s out there working with the phone. He’s got the phone going. He uses two at one time. Right? But your governor was another one. He stood up… He’s Harvard and Yale. Do you know that? Your governor. He doesn’t talk about it. He doesn’t talk about it. But he would be on television defending me and fighting for me. There was a group…
Jim Jordan. Did anyone ever hear of Jim Jordan? Jim Jordan, 128 and one. Jim was an NCA wrestling champion. One of the best, one of the best. He was a great one. He was a great one. And when you win like he won, he won everything. When you win like that, it’s also right here. It’s muscle, but it’s got to be muscle attached to a lot of brain. Right? You guys know, the athletes know it. But Jim was great, but Ron was fantastic, your governor. He asked me, he said, “Would you support me for governor?” I said, “No, not really. I’d rather have you stay right where you are. You’re doing a good job of defending me.” But think of it, what we had to do, and we got 197 to nothing in the House. Think of that. 197 to nothing. And then we went to the Senate, and we had 52 and a half to a half. You know who the half? But that’s okay.
That was the guy that Sleepy Joe Biden he couldn’t remember his name. Remember he said the guy from… The guy from, isn’t he the governor from that place? Utah. Utah. I don’t know his name. I can’t remember his name. It was Romney. No, Sleepy Joe’s a little bit off. Let’s face it, Sleepy Joe is shot. And I’m not a fan of his, and he’s not a nice guy. If he was a nice guy I couldn’t say these things. He’s not a nice guy. Now he doesn’t remember whether or not he used to be a nice guy. He was never considered smart. He was a touchy feely guy. You know those guys? Touchy feely. But not a nice guy. Not a smart guy. Our incredible First Lady is sitting here right now, and she’s saying to herself, “I wonder if all rallies are like this.” No, most of them are a little bit different, but that’s okay. You know why, honey? We’re in Florida. This is like home. This is home. Right? This is home. We say it like it is. We say it like it is. We created the greatest economy in history, and now we are doing it again. See, oh, that hat, that beautiful hat? Let’s make America great again. Right? We’re going to make a new one. Let’s make America great again, again. We did it. We did it. Now we’re doing it again. My First Lady wants to do it again. Under my leadership, the Florida tourism industry and hospitality industry will come roaring back very soon. It’s ready to happen. We’re making the turn.
We’ve got the vaccines coming very soon. The FDA has worked miracles. They had no choice, they had… This would have taken, if Joe was in charge, you wouldn’t have a vaccine for four years. I was going to say he was in charge of the swine flu. He calls it N1H1. It’s actually H1N1. I say, “Joe, it’s not. It’s H1. H comes…” It’s easy because H comes before N. I said, “Joe, Joe, that’s what it is.” I said, “Just go with swine flu. You don’t have to call it… The numbers are too complicated.” Three days ago he said, “I’m a proud Democrat running for the United States Senate, and I hope I have your support.” Look, we can’t games. You’ve seen enough. Haven’t you seen enough? This is crazy.
But based on the early numbers I’ve seen, I think you understand exactly what I’m talking about. We have the potential. We have the greatest country in the world, but we have the potential to go to places that we’ve never been in a positive manner. The potential of our country is so incredible, and you see it happening already. You look at Germany, you look at all of these countries, they’re now locked down, they’ve got a lot of problems. You look at our numbers, look at our recovery, fastest recovery. We went down ,the least economically went down by [inaudible 00:08:57]. As much as it’s painful and terrible, we went down the least. We’ve done an incredible job. It was projected that we would lose 2.2 million people. Right? The projections were 2.2 million. By the way, we shouldn’t have lost one person. China should have never let this happen, they should have never let it escape, and we will not forget. We will not forget.
Biden’s agenda will devastate the Hispanic-American community. He betrayed Hispanic-Americans for 47 years. He’s been very bad to the Hispanic-Americans, and what is happening with those poll numbers? I have the highest numbers. We are now, according to the polls I’m shown, which our real polls, we are now beating the Democrats for the first time ever with Hispanic-Americans. First time ever. First time ever. And I’ve always loved them, and I think they’ve always loved me. First time ever. First time ever. And the fakers back there are going crazy. And now Biden wants to close your small businesses and confiscate your guns. Second Amendment. Don’t worry about it, your Second Amendment.
We’re letting far left rioters, looters, and vandals roam free. Look what he’s doing in Philadelphia. Look what’s happening. Those are people that he supported. He couldn’t even come out against them yesterday. They asked him a question, he said, “What’s Philadelphia? Where is it? Where is it?” He didn’t know what state it was in. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job. Could you imagine losing to this guy? Could you imagine? Our First Lady will have to say, “Darling, I don’t know. This is impossible.” But you have to be very careful when you say that. Whenever I say anything that even uses the word losing, the fake news said, “He is thinking about losing. This is a big story. President Trump thinks she’s going to lose.” No, I don’t. I don’t. I think you’re going to lose, and I think you’ve lost all credibility.
And our elegant First Lady sits and she says, “What the hell is happening again?” This election is a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. That’s what it is. It’s socialism. I used to say Venezuela on steroids. This would be, if they got in, a very, very, very large version of Venezuela, and it can happen with the Green New Deal and all these crazy… Look, AOC plus three, I heard she’s very insulted that I call her AOC. I’m not. I call her AOC plus three. That’s the three characters that… Ilhan Omar. I’m going to win Minnesota because of Ilhan Omar. She tells us how to run our country. She’s telling us how to run our country. I don’t think so. Ilhan Omar. So, we’re going to win the state of Minnesota for two reasons, her and the fact that when Minneapolis had their problem, they should’ve called us sooner.
But when they called us, how long did it take? 25 minutes? It was extinguished. We could have done it the first hour instead of waiting for a week and a half. But the governors, they have to call, and I give the governor credit. He eventually called, He eventually called. They should call us, I’ll tell you, Oregon. They should call us in Portland. Oh, would I love to go in with the anarchists. They would last 15 minutes. Our guys, you got to hold them back. They want to… ” Let us in, sir. We’d like to go in.” I meet them. I see troops. “Sir, we’d like to go into Oregon. We’ll take care of it.” I say, “Just calm down. Just calm down.” It wouldn’t take them long. It would take them about 15… How long? And then we’d, well, we’d do things, and then, eventually, they’ end up going home about 10 years later, back home to mom and dad where they started in the basement. Antifa.
You know Antifa? So, Biden called it an idea. He said, “Antifa’s just an idea.” I said, “No, when you get hit over the head behind your back with a baseball bat, that’s not an idea. That’s not an idea.” Didn’t he call the United States, he called the United States an idea, too. I said, “No, no, it’s not an idea. The United States is a great nation. That’s what it is. It’s not an idea.” He called us an idea, so he puts us in the same category as Antifa. As long as I am president, America will never be a socialist country, and I say it all the Time. This election will decide whether our children will be condemned to the misery of socialism or whether they will inherit the glorious legacy of American freedom. This election will decide whether the Biden Harris…
How about her? How about her? I’ll tell you what, when our great vice president Mike Pence debated her, it was a total… You know the expression, if it were a fight, they would have ended it. Within two days they were saying, the fake news, “She did magnificently well against Mike Pence.” No, no. No. That’s what happens. You do great, great, great. Two days later, you realize they have it down that you lost now. Mike did fantastically. He’s a great vice president. He works very hard. I’ll tell you one thing. His kids are in the military, and they’re teachers. I guarantee you one thing, Mike Pence has not made hundreds of millions of dollars by scamming foreign countries, because that’s what they’ve done. They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars, and nobody wants to talk about it.
Look at that. Oh, are they doing that on purpose? Are they friend or foe? I don’t know. Actually, it felt good. I felt water on my face. I said, “Where the hell is that coming from?” They may be doing that on purpose. Let’s find out if they’re friend or foe, and if their foe, let’s take care of those sons of bitches. Look at that. Are you okay? Oh, look, they’re hitting the press. That’s okay. Oh, there go the cameras. There goes a million dollars worth of equipment. Look at that. Wow. That’s cool, actually. And I’ll tell the media, “I have nothing to do with that,” but it is cooling. I’m feeling a little… It’s amazing. It’s amazing. And I say it all the time, because we’ve liked Ronald Reagan, we’ve liked a lot of… Mostly they’re stiffs. Mostly. Generally speaking, they don’t do the job. Right? But we’ve had good ones like Ronald Reagan. He’s the one I think about. But nobody ever chanted… First of all, he’d never get a crowd like this. He’d have two or 300 people, they’d be in a ballroom. That was like the norm.
You got to see yesterday. We had 35, 40,000 people. We were in Arizona the day before, two days before. We were in Pennsylvania. We did three in Pennsylvania, one bigger than the next, like this. And you know what’s common? The love. It’s all the same. The love is incredible. Love for our country. It’s the love for our country. But there’s never been a chance we love you… I’m watching this guy here. He looks like he could take on anybody in the world. He’s a big, strong guy. I don’t think he’s ever cried in his life before, and I see him wiping away tears. We love you. We love you. This guy, he hasn’t cried since he was a baby and probably didn’t cry then either, and now he’s crying. No, there has never been that chance before, and I appreciate it. And I’m crying. That’s why I ended early. I’m crying, except I don’t want them to say, “You’re president broke down in tears today.” I don’t know. That’s not cool. We don’t want President Xi of China to say, “Gee, I just saw something that surprises me.”
We’ve taken billions and billions of dollars out of China. We gave 28 billion to our farmers, 28, right out of China. I don’t want to have… But then the plague came in, right? Then the plague came in. That [inaudible 00:43:08] everything… We made a great deal with China. The ink wasn’t dry before the plague came in, so it’s a whole different feeling. I will say, three weeks ago, they ordered more corn, more soy beans, more beef than at any time in the history of this country, so they obviously think I’m going to win. They obviously think we’re going to win, and they want to make us happy, but we’re not happy because that should have been stopped. And it’s not. Here, all over the world, you see what’s going on. Europe. It’s so sad, but you see what’s going on. 188 countries all over the world.
What China has done to this world, what they’ve done… People come up to me, they’re clothed and masks and stuff and this… Hello, president. Hello. I said, “Look at this, what China has done to our country. What China…” I may do that. You better be careful. What China has done to this country, which it’s not the first time either. Oh, they’re paying. They’re paying. But you can never pay for 200,000 more lives. You can never pay for that. Yeah, we can make them pay plenty, but a 210,000 lives. But it would have been two million lives. It’s incredible the job that we’ve done and that the American people have done. This could have been two million lives. They said 2.2 million lives. No, they’re going to pay.
We believe in safe streets, secure communities, and we believe in law and order, not like in Philadelphia. And they can’t let that happen. They can’t let the looters run wild. They can’t do it. You can’t. You either have law and order or you don’t. Philadelphia can’t do what they’re doing, and they have good police in Philadelphia. They like Trump. I can tell you. I’ve been endorsed by every law enforcement group. New York’s finest, they endorsed me. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate. New York’s finest endorsed me. It was a great honor because I grew up with New York’s finest. And they are, they’re incredible people. They’re not being allowed to do their job. They’ve been way… He cut back a billion dollars, he took back, and now crime is way up. And it’s not even the money, they’re not being allowed… They’re incredible people. Tough as hell, fair, they love our country. They’re not being allowed in New York to do our job. Between the governor and the mayor, they’re being just absolutely…
And they want to leave. They want to get out. They have plenty of other opportunity. They don’t need the danger. It’s a dangerous job for all police. But we’ve been endorsed by New York. We were endorsed by Chicago police. The Chicago police, that’s… Right? We’ve been endorsed by all of your sheriffs. You have sheriffs. You have great tough sheriffs. I know many of them, but the sheriffs, we had a big ceremony two months ago in Florida. Ron was there. You were endorsed. We got a doors by the sheriffs. All law enforcement all over Florida. And I asked Sleepy Joe at the debate, I said, “Joe, name one law enforcement agency, just one, in the whole country that endorsed you.” He couldn’t do it. Remember? Then Chris Wallace saved him. I had two people. I was going against Chris Wallace and him.
Chris was much tougher. Actually, Chris was tougher than Joe. And then I said, “Joe, say the words law and order.” No. “Say the words law and honor, Joe. Say them.” And then Chris Wallace, “He doesn’t have to do that.” Oh, okay, Chris. Thanks. No, I like Chris’s father a lot better than I like him. Mike Wallace, the great Mike Wallace. He did me on 60 Minutes. It was a great… It was one of the few good pieces. He was a tough guy. Chris tries to be like him, but he doesn’t have what it takes. But Mike Wallace was a tough, tough guy. And he did me on 60 Minutes, and it was a great piece. He’s never recovered from that originally, but he passed away. He was a great guy and a great, great reporter, I’ll tell you. And he was a friend of mine. He was a friend of mine. That didn’t mean much to Chris.
All we want is fairness. Right? And I will tell you, Kristen Welker, I thought she was very good. I really do. She shouldn’t have been because she was far left. Her family is a supporter of Democrats. Her father’s a big supporter of Democrat. She’s a supporter of Democrats. Should have been very unfair. I think she went out of her way. And most people say she wasn’t really fair to me, but she was because she always gave me a 10 seconds. She said, “Okay.” See, Chris should have done that, “You have 10 seconds.” 10 seconds to me is like an eternity.
We did a lot of damage in that 10 seconds, including to get him to admit that he doesn’t want oil. He doesn’t want oil. I said, “Texas and Pennsylvania and Ohio, are you listening? Are you listening?” And you’ll see they were listening on November 3rd. I’m sorry you’ll have to wait till November 3rd. Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Oklahoma, North Dakota, they’re all listening. And you’re listening because you don’t want your energy prices to go through the roof. Right? And Michigan was listening because they want to produce cars and they don’t want to spend all that money on energy where they’re producing all of those factories that I got to go back to Michigan and go back to Ohio and go back to North Carolina and start brand new.
And I’d see Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I’d say, “Prime minister, we’re tired of taking your millions of cars. You got to let us have factories.” Well, we can’t do that. This is a private decision. No, no, it’s not. You got to do it. But that is not government. I said, “You’re a powerful man, Shinzo.” He just retired. Unfortunately, he got ill, but he was a great man. He was great prime minister. Great guy, too.” But I said, “Shinzo, you have to do it. I’m sorry. We’re not going to take your cars. You got to make them in this country, in our country.” And he said, “I can’t do that, but let me work on it.” The following morning, five major Japanese companies announced they were coming to America, and they did. I called him up, I said, “Shinzo, I know you had nothing to do with it, but thank you anyway.” No, they run it tough over in Japan and China and these other places. Tuesday, your vote is going to save our country. Most important election we’ve ever had. We are going to defeat the Marxists and the socialist and the rioters and the flag burdens and the left wing extremists. We are going to defeat the anarchists, their anarchy. With your support, we will fight for American workers, we will defend our Second Amendment. Don’t worry, it’s very safe. If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone.
If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone so fast. You know that. Support our police. Protect our borders. Expand school choice. So important. Ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” That’s what’s going to happen.
My plan for America will deliver a safe vaccine. You’re going to have it in a few weeks. It’s coming very quickly. Great companies. Johnson &amp; Johnson. Moderna, Pfizer, many, many companies. You’re going to have it. Seniors will be first in line to get it, and we will make it available to everybody free. It’s not your fault. It’s not your fault. We’re protecting our seniors. If you’re a senior and if you have a heart condition, if you have any kind of a certain type, especially diabetes, you’re in big trouble if you get hit by the China virus. Big, big trouble. So we’re going to make that vaccine. We’re going to make it free, and it’s coming from great, great firms. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus, and by the way, we have it. But whether we have it or not, it’s rounding the turn. It’s rounding the turn.
Hey. Excuse me. I’m sure you didn’t hear. Nobody heard this, right? I had it. Did you know that? I had to get back on the trail? I said, “This is not good timing.” And I got better very quickly. First Lady had it. She had it, and she got better very quickly. But I’ll tell you who had it also. The doctor went to the First Lady and myself and said, “Barron has tested positive.” I said, “Excuse me, doctor, tested positive for what?” “He’s got COVID.” I said, “Okay.” Then about 12 minutes later, I said, “Doctor, Doctor, how’s Barron doing?” He’s our very tall son. Very tall. Has anybody noticed he’s slightly tall? He’s 14 and I’m saying, “Hello, Barron.” Now he’s great, but he’s strong. But I said like 12 minutes later, Dr. Sean … Great doctor. We have great doctors. One thing, when you are president, you got a lot of doctors. Johns Hopkins, I want to thank them. Walter Reed Medical Center, incredible.
I mean, Dr. Ronny is now a Congressman from Texas. How about that? Dr. Ronny, he was before Sean, and Sean is now, and Sean has been great. But Sean came up along with other doctors, that Barron had it. About 12 seconds later, I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay. He shed it. It’s gone.” It was gone like in two minutes. I said, “Hey, how come that doesn’t happen with me?” But I wasn’t bad. It was like a day, but they gave me a drug, Moderna. Who the hell knows? This was a very … Moderna makes it. I’ll tell you makes really a great version, they say. Eli Lilly, right? Regeneron. And they gave it to me, and I woke up the next morning and I felt I could have taken the toughest, meanest person in this group. Regeneron.
Now, I don’t know whether or not it worked. I like to think it had no impact. I made a statement. I said, “Well, I’m in no trouble, because I’m young and I’m in perfect physical shape. I’m a perfect physical specimen.” And CNN went crazy. “He’s not young and he’s not in perfect …” They can’t take a joke. No, but I was better. I was better quickly. I was better very quickly. We reduced the fatality rate 85%, and now we have the lowest infection fatality rate anywhere in the world by far thanks to our unrelenting efforts. And by the way, remdesivir was also approved. It’s supposed to have a great effect. I mean, I said, “Give me whatever the hell you have. Just give it to me.” I wasn’t choosy. You know, the First Lady, “I don’t want anything. I don’t want …” She’s very particular, right? If I say, “Take an aspirin. You’ll feel better.” “No, no. I don’t want an aspirin.” Right? She doesn’t want that.
Only 3% of hospitalizations are right now China virus. So think of that. So our hospitals are ready if something should happen, but that’s what … I appreciate that. He said, “We trust you.” You can. We are doing the greatest job of this, except with one thing, publicity. Our public relations, we’re spending too much time working and not enough time talking, but no matter what you say to these people, it won’t make any difference. And because of the advances in treatment we pioneered, the survival rate is far over 99% for many groups. It’s 99.9% And for under 70, it’s unbelievably high. For over 70, now it’s getting very good.
And the drug they gave me, what we’re doing is we’re going to make that available, including the very similar drug, it’s antibody, a very similar drug from Eli Lilly. We’re going to make that available to anybody that needs it should they get the China virus. We’re going to make it available free. So if anybody is going to need it, if anybody’s going to need it.
Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, crush our economy. Crush our economy. We can’t do this. Destroy the Florida tourism industry, and lock down our entire country. We’ll be locked down. Under Biden’s lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, abuse. The thing that’s happening to families is … The cure, remember, I said it right in the video, the cure can not be worse than the problem itself.
And you have Michigan locked down. You have all Democrat governors. You know what’s going to happen? On November 4, the day after the election, they’re going to open it up. They’re doing it for political reasons, because it’s so bad for their state, and they think our numbers are going to look a little worse. California’s pretty much locked down. New York’s got to open. New York is becoming a very unsafe ghost town. Governor, open up the state, governor. Open up the state. You’ll see our governor, he’s going to make a few words in a couple of minutes. Governor from New York is going to be with us in a little while. Are you surprised to see that? You’ll see what I mean. There will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmases, no 4th of Julys. There will be nothing. They will allow you nothing. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job.
Europe imposed crushing lockdowns, and today Spain is more than two times more new cases per capita than the United States. France has over three times, and Belgium has over seven times what we have. And I don’t want that. I don’t want that. I don’t want that to happen to them. We’re helping them. We’re sending them thousands and thousands of ventilators. We’ve become the ventilator king. We’re making thousands of ventilators a month. We’re sending them to Europe and all over the world, sending a lot to Africa. They’ll never be able to get them. They’ll never be able to make them. We’ve done an incredible job. Incredible job.
European lockdowns are not stopping the virus, but they’re creating misery, poverty, suffering, and death. You see the riots in the street of Italy today, in the streets of Italy? And the riots they’re having in France. The people are tired. They can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it anymore. They’re losing their businesses. They’re losing their jobs. They go back and the business is closed for nine months. We can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it. We know the disease. We social distance. We do all of the things that you have to do. If you get close, wear a mask. Always controversial. It’s not controversial to me. You get close, you wear a mask. Social distance. Social distance. You know the bottom line, though? You’re going to get better. You’re going to get better. If I can get better, anybody can get better. And I got better fast. They were so happy. They couldn’t believe it. That was probably the happiest day that they’ve had in years.
And then I came out of the hospital to wave to the people, the supporters. I heard … These really beautiful rooms. Walter Reed is incredible. The best. The best. And rooms, the glass, heavy glass panels over the windows. And through all of that heavy glass, brick and mortar, I could hear people screaming outside a half a mile away. And they were fans of mine with flags, Trump flags. “We love our president.” And they were there for two days. They stayed there all night. I mean, these people were incredible. And I said to my incredible Secret Service people, there’s one of them, Bobby. I know I’m not supposed to say it. Bobby, I love you, Bobby. I said, “Bobby, I want to go over and see them.” “No problem, sir.” He ripped on that mask. He wouldn’t even think about that. I said, “Let’s go over and see them, Bobby.” By that time I was in good shape. I wanted to get out here with you.
But we drove in front of those people, and we waved, and the people were so happy. It was incredible. It was. It was a love fest. They were so happy. And I got back and they were saying, “What a terrible thing to do.” No. We got to take care of our people, right? We got to stay with our people, including Secret Service, who does an incredible job. Thank you. Thank you, Bobby. The man. The man. Thank you, Bobby. Thank you, Secret Service. They do a great job.
For half a century, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. In 2016, Florida voted to fire the depraved political establishment, and you elected an outsider as your president, who is finally, if you don’t mind, putting America first. That’s what we’re doing.
Joe Biden is a corrupt politician that the fake news will not write about. They won’t write the story. They won’t write it, and big tech won’t write it. They won’t write the story. There’s the outside of the New York Post, who just endorsed me by the way, thank you very much, so fourth largest paper in the country. Got a lot of great endorsements. We got a lot of great … Jack Nicklaus. You know Jack? But he can do [inaudible 01:01:11] Jack. 78 tournaments he won, and he won 18 majors. Think of that, how great that is. That means under pressure … You need people like that, right? People that can win under pressure. Jack. But Jack gave me a beautiful endorsement. We got endorsements from a lot of newspapers all over. We got a lot of endorsements. If Biden wins, thank you very much. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, Florida wins and America wins. It’s very simple.
And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment. It’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I have fought for you harder than any president has ever fought for the people they love. Never.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much. There’s a lot of people … Look where that crowd is. Would you like to change places with some people in the back? I don’t think so. Thank you. Thank you. That’s incredible. What a crowd. But they’re all like this. I tell you, no matter where you go, 35,000, 45,000. They never mention it. They never mention. But with Biden, they never mention it either. I said, “Show the crowd.” You know what? They have circles. Someday, I’m going to hire the guy that does those circles. No, because it’s really good. Big, thick, nice circles. They’re perfectly done. It’s the best part of his campaign, the circles. And usually he’s got five of them. Usually he can’t fill them up with people, so he puts the fake news in the circles.
And then they don’t ask him questions. Or how about the question they asked him the other day? He’s walking out with ice cream. “Sir, what flavor ice cream is it?” “I don’t know. It’s vanilla, I think.” Then they asked him a real question, he ran into the car, went back to the basement. Does he have the lid on again today? Almost every day. How do you put the lid? You know, when you do the lid, he did it like five, six days recently, that’s like 50% of the campaign. Now they try and say it’s because of COVID. They say the fact that he has nobody at all show up is because of COVID. No, it’s because nobody shows up.
And I think that’s the ultimate poll, and based on the numbers that we’re getting, we’re going to do really well on Tuesday. We’ll see. Who knows? It’s an election. And if we do win, you’re going to see a stock market that goes through the roof. Your 401ks are going to go up by 50% quickly. You watch. I’m telling you. We know. I know all those guys. They’re just petrified at the thought of having massive tax increases, regulation increases. They said, “We’ve been through that. It wasn’t good.” That’s why they had no growth. That’s why they had no recovery. Slowest ever. Remember I said that. Slowest since 1929. That’s a long time.
Not only is Joe Biden corrupt, he’s unfit. He has no plan to end the epidemic. It’s all talk, no action, like I said at the debate. 91% to 9%. You know what that means? They did polls afterwards. 91%. A respected poll, 91% said … I have to do it. I have to brag. You know why? They’ll never do it. Do you know the expression? If you can’t get anybody else to do it, do it yourself. No. 91% to 9%. I’m trying to figure out who was the nine. I want to find who these people were. No, it was just a ridiculous. Ridiculous. I think they could have done better, but you know, you never know. Again, this is why. You never know.
His policies would create a depression, and he wants you to surrender our country. That’s what he wants to do. He wants you to surrender our country to China, to all of these other countries that have taken total advantage of us. It’s really the reason I’m here. If it weren’t for the horrible trade deals with South Korea, with our allies, you know, our allies in many ways treat us worse than the enemy. The enemy, at least we have our guard up. Our allies, what they’ve done to us in terms of military protection and trade is disgraceful.
And when they come out and they say they like Barack Hussein Obama much more than they like Trump, that means I’m doing my job. You see, Germany said it the other day, and I have roots in Germany. But Germany said it the other day, they like Barack Hussein Obama. And they should, because Germany is delinquent in their NATO payments. Very delinquent. They’re at a half a level, and they’re very rich. They can do whatever they want. It’s not like they don’t have the money. And I call them out. I say, “If you don’t pay, we’re going to start taking our troops out.” And these people go crazy. They go crazy. You watch. Oh, we’ve already started to do it. They’ll pay.
But I just want to play you a video from a … I was so impressed. It’s a little bit … We only do this for people that we love. We have these very expensive boards that come along, and this is largely a woman that comes from this area. Her husband happens to be a Major League Baseball player. Do you know who I’m talking about? He’s a handsome guy, but she’s far more beautiful, and he’s on Tampa Bay, so he’s right now a little depressed. I don’t know if he’s here or not, but if he is, I want to talk to him and say you did a great job. Kayleigh, please come up here, Kayleigh, and play the video, please. Play the video.
Joe Biden censored zero times notably. No, because we’re taking our message directly to the American people. We’ll be making five rally stops a day. Five. Thousands show up. Literally we had 25,000 people show up in Omaha. These are historic crowds. The President takes his message directly to the American people, and shame on Jack Dorsey. As the New York Post noted today, this is a mob artist. This is a shakedown effort to say, “Delete the Hunter Biden story. The media won’t report on it. Social media will censor it. Delete it, or we will censor the fourth newspaper in the United States. We will block them from social media. Big tech needs to be handled, and this president, a second term, will do just that, because there needs to be equity. There needs to be a lack of censorship. This is what happens in North Korea, not in the United States of America.
Yeah. Look. The American people have a very clear choice when it comes to COVID. You can vote on Joe Biden or you will be locked down. Your schools will be closed. Your churches will be closed. You won’t have social gatherings. It will be a lockdown versus President Trump, where we are safely reopening this country. Americans deserve jobs. They deserve freedom. Joe Biden’s modeling his strategy, which is lock down in the basement, but this president has surged therapeutics and testing and a vaccine in record time. We can control this, but at the same time, we can open this country and not lock down like Joe Biden will do.
That’s right. It’s their livelihood. These are small businesses. People who have worked their entire lives to open these shops, these businesses, and then on top of that, you have 30 police officers who are injured on the first night of the riots. One run over by a car. Chants to stuff police officers in trunks. A vehicle with explosive devices. Let me be crystal clear why this is happening. It’s because Democrats have enabled the mob. When they attack our police officers verbally, it ends up that they end up being attacked physically. It’s called, what Jim Comey said, the Ferguson effect. And we’re seeing it play out yet again.
So as we have 70 new infections a day and 29 states have hit highs, is the President’s approach herd immunity?
No, the president’s approach is therapeutics, which by the way, have given us the lowest case fatality rate in the world, far lower than Europe’s. Right now, when you look across the hospitals in the United States, the percentage of COVID patients in hospital beds is 6%. it’s because this president did things right. You have a 99% survival rate under 70, and above 70, because of our therapeutics, it’s very close to that because of what this president did, tearing down bureaucratic barriers, tearing down regulations, paving the way for therapeutics. We have done this right, and the Europe-United States comparison tells that story.
All right. Kayleigh McEnany.
The fact is, every time I’ve called the President, he’s quickly gotten on the line. When we asked to get support for that mercy ship in Southern California, he was able to direct that in realtime.
What the federal government did working with states was a phenomenal accomplishment.
We got 2000 of these field medical sites that are up, almost all operational now in the state because of his support. And those are the facts.
His team has been on it. I know a team when they’re on it, and I know a team when they’re not on it. His team is on it. They’ve been responsive late at night, early in the morning.
We are working very well with FEMA Region 2 and with the Army Corps of Engineers, building four field hospitals. That was a decision the President himself took, and I’m grateful for it.
These were just extraordinary efforts and acts of mobilization, and the federal government stepped up. We needed help and they were there.
He said everything that I could have hoped for. And we had a very long conversation, and every single thing he said, they followed through on.
We’ve got to have double the number of ventilators that we requested for that area of the state. And in fact, we got them in, frankly, short order.
Have we lost anyone because we didn’t have a bed or we didn’t have a ventilator or we didn’t have healthcare staff? No.
The President was extending support for new swabs. So conversation, commitment, a promise made, promise kept.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plants. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle them along during a quickie escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal. One of the things that is important is that … Keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on that, I think today-
That was terrifying.
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of Georgia, going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
I mean, who’s going to say it better than Kayleigh? So I want to congratulate you. This is our great looking couple. We almost had the Dodgers. Are they that good a team? They’re pretty good, right? Well, you’re pretty good too, and you’re a great couple, and that’s a beautiful baby. Thank you very much. See? She’s smart. She’s smart. She picked a major league ball player. You know what it is to get the major leagues and stuff. You got to be in shape. You can’t look like these guys out here. No, she’s great. But did anybody say, especially on the pandemic, has anybody said it better than that? That was this morning on Fox, Fox and Friends. And I got to tell you, that group, that threesome, they’re great, right? They’re great, right? That’s a great group in the morning. But she said it on Fox and Friends. Ainsley, Steve, and Brian has been really great, right? Brian’s been great. No, they treat us good.
We’re thrilled to be joined by your governor, who I know is up here speaking, but I’m going to introduce him a second time because we love him and he’s done a great job, and he loves the people of Florida. Ron DeSantis. Ron. And your Lieutenant Governor, who is a fantastic woman, and she loves her state, Jeanette Nuñez. And we have some warriors you know that used to work with Ron, and without them, maybe I wouldn’t be standing here. Remember, 197 to nothing. Congressman Michael Waltz. Michael. He knows more about … Where is Michael? Michael. You get married yet, Michael? Please get married quickly. You’ll be so depressed, Michael. If you don’t, you’re going to be very, very depressed. Thank you. Thank you. You better do it quick. She’s out of here, Michael.
He’s out of here Michael. Another great friend of mine and a warrior, Gus Bilirakis. Thank you Gus. Great job. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. And Greg Stube. Greg, thank you very much. Greg, great job you’re doing, Greg. These people are tough. I’ll tell you what. We have some incredible people in Washington. Attorney General Ashley Moody, who’s doing a phenomenal job. Thank you, Ashley, for everything. Doing a fantastic job. Florida House Speaker Chris Sprowls. Chris. And so young. Florida GOP Chair Joe Gruters. Joe, where are your Joe? Where’s Joe? Joe, how are we doing Joe? You’ll be out of here so fast if we don’t win this election. He’ll be gone. We are doing well. Yep. We’re going to win. If we don’t win, our country will have trouble. And vote for the Congressman and vote for the Republicans. They want to do what’s right. They want to do what’s right and you know it’s the right thing to do. We have Congressional candidate Scott Franklin and Ana Paulina Luna. Great, I put something up. They have my full endorsement. Great going.
I hear you’re both doing very well. Win please. Doing very well. Great, great. Under my administration, we’re reversing the damage that Joe Biden and his group have done over a 47 year period. We’re bringing the pharmaceutical industry back here and back to regions of Puerto Rico. They took it out of Puerto Rico, devastating Puerto Rico. Joe Biden voted to eliminate those jobs and to send them to China and we’re reversing that and we’ve been reversing it now for over two years and it’s moving very rapidly. Last month, I also announced $13 billion in disaster relief for Puerto Rico. They got hit hard. They’re in a little path that causes problems. You know that right? Lot of hurricane problems. Speaking of hurricanes, you have a lot of hurricane problems too, and I’m always there. Ron, am I always there? Ron calls up, “Sir, I’d like to speak to you.” What is it about? Another hurricane? Yes. How many billion do you need, Ron? But I’m always there. And Rick, I’ll tell you what, Rick Scott’s been great. He’s been great. And Marco Rubio has been great. He’s been great, Marco.
Very strong guys, strong leaders. Good guys, too. Really good guys. Marco and Rick, you have great people here, great leadership. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in United States history. And we have now built over 400 miles of wall. And we’ll have it finished very shortly. It’ll be finished very soon. You don’t hear about it anymore. You used to hear when they didn’t think I’d be able to pull it off and that was a tough one. They were willing to close up the country over the wall. So I had a party, totally strong party, bad politics, but strong party. Bad policy, but they didn’t want a wall. But I made a really terrible mistake. I should have said instead of we will build a wall, I should have said, “We will not build a wall,” and they would have given me all the money. They would’ve said, “We demand that you build it immediately.”
But then they said, “Walls don’t work.” And I said, “No walls work and wheels work. Those are the two things that work.” Everything else gets obsolete in about 15 minutes after it’s discovered. Biden wants to terminate our travel bans and surge refugees from the most dangerous places in the world. He will open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. And you saw what happened three days ago, the beheading in France, and today it happened again. And we give our warmest regards to President McCrone, a friend of ours, a friend of mine, a friend of the first lady. They’re two great people. First lady of France is a great woman. Under the Biden plan, the horrifying attacks in France will come to our cities and our towns. And I don’t want to speak too loudly about this and I knock on wood. This is real wood. This is real wood. I can tell anything having to do with the White House and the president’s real wood somewhere. Oh yeah, here, let me knock on this piece. That’s definitely.
Look at what’s happened long time, right. I don’t want to say long time. And the first call I get after we win, the first call I get will be from Iran. They’re going to want to make a deal because their country has been devastated. They have been unable to give money to terrorist organizations that they’ve given routinely for years. Their GDP is down 27% this year, which is the highest anybody’s ever seen of any country in one year. Think of it. We’re up 33.1 and they’re down 27 and they’re going to want to make a deal and we want to make a deal if we can. We want them to be a great country, but they cannot have a nuclear weapon. They cannot have a nuclear weapon. And we’re going to help them. We’re going to help them. We’re going to go with them and help them and do whatever we have to do and I hope happens, but I believe that.
And I even said, “Don’t deal with them now. They’re going to want to see what happens with Sleepy Joe,” because if he won, China will own us. Iran will make another crazy deal where they give them 150 billion or 1.8 billion in cash. Think of that. We have so many things that what we’ve done, the deals that we’ve made. It’s very scary to see. I watch it and I say, “There has to be something wrong because nobody can be that stupid. Nobody can be that stupid.” Under my leadership, we’re keeping the terrorist, extremist, and violent criminals the hell out of our country if that’s okay, if that’s okay with you. Some of you might object because you have that nice liberal point of view, but if that’s okay with you, we’ll keep them the hell out. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including 11.2 million. Figure this, $11.2 million right here MacDill Air Force Base. Has anybody heard of MacDill? Has anybody in the audience? Mr. Congressman, you’re the one that got it in [inaudible 00:07:05]. Waltz. And we also passed veteran’s choice and veteran’s accountability. They all said it was impossible.
They said it was impossible. And we took 100% of the ISIS caliphate, destroyed it. And we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, who they were looking for for 17 years. Al-Baghdadi is dead. And then we took out the world’s number one terrorist by far, the worst in 50 years, Qasem Soleimani is dead. He killed many of our soldiers. He killed many soldiers from many continents, most feared man in the Middle East. He’s gone. I withdrew from the last administration’s horrible Iran nuclear deal. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and got the building built for a tiny fraction. You know that story, right? Tiny fraction. I called up our great ambassador, David Friedman. I said, “David, let’s see if we can get it open.” They wanted to spend $2 billion to build an embassy and it would have never happened. I said, “David, go around. Do we have any land that we own? We’re the government. We own everything, right, even in other countries. See what we have.” He calls me back the following day.
He says, “Sir, we own a great piece, much better than the piece they were going to buy.” We didn’t buy it because I didn’t like it. I didn’t like the location. Does that make sense because I’m in the real estate business? I didn’t like location. Location’s very important. I said, “See what we have.” He said, “Sir, we have a piece that’s much bigger. It’s in a much better location and it has a building.” Now remember, we’re going to spend between a billion and $2 billion. I said, “Well, what’s the building?” He said, “The building is a building that’s basically unoccupied. It’s pretty big. We could fix it up.” I said, “How much?” He said, “Let me get back to you.” He gets back to me two days later. Sir, I think we could do it for 390,000, right. Right. Do you understand that Mr. Congress? So I said, “It’s the first time I’ve ever done this.” I said, “David, that doesn’t sound good. It sounds too cheap. Make it a little more, make it 500.”
And we did. We did it for 500,000 and it’s Jerusalem. And a friend of mine, Ron Baron, he’s so proud of a wall opposite the elevator. Every time I walk in he shows me Jerusalem stone. I go crazy. Ron, I don’t care. I said, “David, you’re in Jerusalem. It’s very expensive in New York. Can you get Jerusalem stone?” He said, “Yes we can. We have it. We can buy it for nothing.” I said, “Good. Make the building out of Jerusalem stone.” So he made it out of Jerusalem stone. We had it opened four months later for $500, 000. Not only would it have cost more than $2 million, you wouldn’t have that building built for 25 years. So we did something a little different. We got something done for a tiny, tiny fraction of what it was supposed to cost. And we had it open in three and a half, four months. And it’s now our embassy. It’s a great embassy and it’s recognized. Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. Sort of a great story.
And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been working on that for 52 years. We got it done in two hours and it’s not easy. And every president wanted to do those two things for many, many decades, but they couldn’t. And I understand why they couldn’t. A lot of pressure, a lot of pressure against. And instead of never ending wars in the Middle East, we’re forging peace deals all over the place. You see it. No blood in the sand, no blood in the sand. No cause. Biden and Obama made a pathetic one-sided deal with the Castro dictatorship. My opponent stands with socialists and communists. I stand with the proud people of Cuba and Nicaragua and Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom and we’re winning. We’re winning it. It’s going to be easy. We’re winning. The last administration also negotiated the terrible Obama Biden Santos deal with Colombian drug cartels, surrendering to the Narco terrorists.
You know what that means? That means drugs. Our first lady sits on our commission. She chairs the commission of drugs and on drugs in America and how to get rid of it. It’s a blue ribbon commission, right. And we’re down 19%. We had a little setback with the recent problem with the China virus, but it’s getting back under control, but she’s taking it down 19. She and the commission have taken it down 19%. And she doesn’t want it mentioned. She doesn’t want to talk about it. She doesn’t want to talk about it. See if it would be sitting in her position, I’d be holding a news conference. I have done an incredible job. No, I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. But she has done an incredible job. Thank you honey. Thank you. Thank you very much. Under my administration, we worked with Colombian officials to seize or disrupt 227 tons of poisonous narcotics since April alone. The fact is I’ve done more in 47 months than Sleepy Joe Biden has done in 47 years. It’s true.
It’s true. No administration in the first 3 and a half years has done what this administration has done. We’ve rebuilt our military. We’ve done the biggest tax cut in history, biggest regulation cut in history. What we’ve done is incredible, even environmentally. I’ll tell you what. We’re not going to go over a list, we’d be here all day, but no administration. And the fake news doesn’t even call me on it. Usually, if you make a statement, they think it’s 1% off. It’s a headline the next day. In the coming weeks, we will distribute a vaccine, defeat the virus, and complete the great American comeback. We’re in the process. A vote for Republicans like these people right down here is a vote for the great American dream. That’s what it is. I remember Abraham Lincoln, the great, the legendary Abraham Lincoln was a Republican. Would you please remember that? Nobody knows that. They know it now because I like to say it. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Your 2nd Amendment will be defended. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And I told you, we spent two and a half trillion with a T, trillion dollars, trillion on our military. We have to finest rockets, the finest missiles, the finest jets, F-35s. We have the finest tanks and submarines and ships all made in the USA. And our nuclear stockpile, we are in a position like no other country in the world. We are the envy of every country, Russia, China, North Korea. No country in the world has what we have. And just a lot of religious people in this audience, pray to God that we never have to use it. And it’s more likely that we won’t have to use it now that we have it, but just hope that we never have to use it.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices even more, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. That’s already happening Nest. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto in God we trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who’s standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Florida. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your boss. Pull them out of their chair. Come on, boss. And you got to get out and vote. There’s never been an election more important. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the rest of the swamp. We’ve done a lot of it.
From Pensacola to Miami, from Orlando to Jacksonville, and from Tallahassee to right here in Tampa, we inherit the legacy of… You know it, right? We inherit the incredible legacy of Florida Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, dug out the Panama Canal, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism. And from right here in this beautiful state, landed our brave American astronauts on the face of the moon. You’ve done a lot. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We’re winning. We are winning again. We are winning again. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Florida, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Florida. Get out and vote. Thank you.
Wow. Thank you very much. And hello, Goodyear. Hello, Phoenix. Six days, can you believe this? Six days from now we are going to win Arizona and we are going to win four more years in our great, beautiful White House. A vote for me is a vote for massive tax cuts, regulation cuts, fair trade, strong borders, our Second Amendment, we will save our Second Amendment, and American energy independence. It’s a vote to support our police, our military, stand up to China, which we’ve been doing. They gave $28 billion to our farmers. That’s very nice. Thank you very much, China. And ensure more products that are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the U.S.A.”
We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus, the China Plague is what it is, and quickly end the pandemic. Normal life, which is what we want, we just want normal life, like we had seven months ago. We’ll fully resume, and next year we will be the greatest economic power. We are going to be stronger than we’ve ever been before. And you see that all happening. Next year will be the best economic year in our country’s history. And last year was, and then we were interrupted. We were interrupted. It’s called Make America Great Again, Again. A vote for Joe Biden, Sleepy Joe, is a vote for the biggest tax hike in history. I’ve never seen this before, a man who’s campaigning on the fact that he’s going to raise your taxes. I have seen.
Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up!
They’re going to crush, regulations, it will be crushing. You have no idea what they want to do. We’ve took off more regulations than any administration in the history of our country. They are going to put those regulations back, and all they do is cause waste and a lot of other problems, slash Medicare and social security, and they want to abolish American energy. You know what he said, “No fracking.” He said, “No fracking.” Until he went to Pennsylvania, then he said, “Maybe we can frack.” His people won’t let them frack and Joe doesn’t have any clue where he is. You know that. “Where am I? Where am I? What state am I in?” He’s only got it wrong about seven times. “Where am I? Is this Arizona or is this Nevada? Where am I? Tell me, where am I? Is this Iowa? Oh, oh, oh, oh, it’s very hot. I know where I am. This is Florida, isn’t it?” “No, Joe. No Joe.”
A vote for Biden is a vote for open borders, offshoring jobs, shredding the Second Amendment, confiscating your guns, and eliminating private healthcare. 180 million people on private healthcare. It’s called bye-bye. And they love their private healthcare. Biden and the Democrat socialists will delay the vaccine, prolong the pandemic, shutter your schools and shut down our country. And your state is open, right? Your state is nice and open. Your state is nice and open. Thank you. Your Governor did a good job. I don’t know if you appreciate it, but he did a good job. You had a spike, and he just did what he had to do. And your state is fully open. Good job. He may be here. He may be in this crowd of about 25,000 people. He may be here. I may get lucky and introduce them in a little while. He is here. He’s a great Governor.
This election is a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. As long as I am President, America will never, ever be a socialist country. I am fighting for the dreams of all Americans, including millions of truly amazing, and they like me, my poll numbers are through the roof with, Hispanic Americans, right? Through the roof. I always knew they liked me. It’s a big story. They say, “What’s going on?” I just saw it. “What’s going on with Trump and the Hispanics? What’s going on with Trump? His poll numbers.” They’re getting very nervous. Our poll numbers are looking very good. We had one little upset this morning. We’re doing very well in Wisconsin, right? I was there yesterday. We had 25,000 people at least. And I will tell you, it was cold. I did three of these yesterday.
We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you!
Don’t make me cry. Don’t make me cry. They’ll say, “The president was crying.” I don’t know. I don’t know if I want a President that cries. But it’s okay. But that’s the phrase, one of the greatest men in the country right here, did you ever hear that phrase before? I don’t think so. Oh, we have Mike Lee here too. And we have Rand Paul here and Sergio, and the King of Europe we have right here. Rand, did you ever hear that phrase for a politician? Rand would like that phrase, I can tell you right now.
Latinos love you! Latinos love you! Latinos love you! Latinos love you! Latinos love you!
So we’ve got some great polls and we are getting great polls. We are doing great in Florida. Doing great in North Carolina. Doing great I think in Pennsylvania, I think. I think it’s going to be great. We won it last time. First time in many years, a Republican won. We’ve done good. Brought a lot of business there. They had a lot of business went back to Pennsylvania, so I think they appreciate it, but haven’t seen the numbers. They vote late. They vote on Tuesday. That’s what they like. I like that too. But we’re doing good all over. We’re doing good in Wisconsin. We have a poll. We’re one up in Wisconsin. Don’t clap yet. Today, the fake Washington Post, ABC, you’d think they come out that he’s four down, he’s five down. “17 down in Wisconsin.” I don’t think so. I had the same fraudsters here four years ago, they had me 12 down a week before the election, right? Remember that, I was 12 down? ABC, Washington Post, I mean, just dishonest people. And we sent them a legal letter and by the time we got to the election, we were even. I wonder what happened. But they interviewed slightly more Democrats and Republicans. We looked at it. I think there’s some kind of a law that you have to do that. They interviewed a few more, a number that you wouldn’t even believe.
CNN sucks! CNN sucks!
I agree.
CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks!
I agree. I agree. But they’re all in that bag. ABC, terrible. NBC is probably the worst of all. It’s called Concast. C-O-N, not Com. C-O-N, Concast, because they’re cons. It’s a big con job. It’s a big con job. They spend all that money for public relations, and then I talk about them, that’s the end of the public relations. Con job. How did you guys do today, please, on Section 230. Mike Lee, how are you doing? You know what? What they’re doing is a disgrace. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician and they refuse to talk about it. You’ve got to do it. You’ve got to do it. I mean, it’s crazy. They’re getting away, what the big tech is getting away with. They will not allow anybody to even discuss it. With me, they write false stories, they can do whatever they want. Section 230, Rand. I hope you’re all looking at it, okay? I hope you’re all looking at it. Because there was a lot of stuff today.
They were up there and they were very nervous in front of the Senate. They were very nervous. I have to tell you that. They were shaken up a little bit, because without Section 230, they don’t even exist. They don’t even exist. For 47 years, Joe Biden betrayed the American people and he betrayed Hispanic Americans. Over the last four years, I’ve been delivering for Hispanic Americans like never before. And Hispanic American unemployment reached an all time low prior to the pandemic.
Latinos for Trump! Latinos for Trump! Latinos for Trump! Latinos for Trump! Latinos for Trump!
It’s crazy. I love you too. Nobody knows what happened. The fake news, look at all of them back there. That’s a lot of fake news back there. Look at that. Those red lights just went off. Anytime I refer to them, they turn the light off very quickly. They don’t want to have it broadcast when I call CNN bad names. Hispanic American families saw their net worth skyrocket by 64%. And I’m sitting in the hottest sun I’ve ever felt. This is hot. My last stop also in your great state, it had a different problem. The sun was hot. I’ve never seen wind like that. It’s lucky I don’t need teleprompters like Sleepy Joe because the teleprompters were falling down. They were going all over the place. I was getting a headache. I’m trying to look. But I have a good memory. I remember things unlike the sleepy one. He’s in a lid again. Did you know that, fellas? He’s in lid. This guy’s in a lid every single day. Lid, that refers to a garbage can. They put the lid on the can. He’s in his basement.
By the way, I’d like to be in a basement. I’d like to be in some place. I’d like to be in a beautiful bedroom, nice for a year and a half, two years, never come out of the White House. But I’m your President, I have to. I have to come out. I have to meet people. I have to meet people. We have to meet people. And I said, “This could be a little bit shaky, to meet a lot of people, but we have no choice.” And you probably haven’t heard, but I caught it. I caught it. Did anybody know that? I caught it. And then you get better and you’re immune. And they say, “You’re immune for a year.” They used to say you’re immune forever, but when I got it, I said, “I’m immune.” They said, “It’s only for four months.” I don’t know what happened. They said, “You’re immune for a lifetime,” right? Remember? Until I had it. Once I had it, now it’s only up to four months.
But I got better. Great doctors at the White House. We have great doctors. Great doctors all over the country. I had doctors from all over the country. One thing I learned quickly, when you’re the President and you’re not feeling too good, I didn’t feel great, you have more doctors than you’ve ever seen in your life before. It was like a public place. And they were gathered around my bed. They said, “What’s the problem?” I said, “I don’t know, doc, but I’m not feeling too good. And I’ve got to get back on the trail.” You know what the trail is, right? The campaign trail. “I’ve got to get back on the trail. Get me the hell out of here, doc.” John’s Hopkins was great. We have all the great hospitals represented. And I’ll tell you, Walter Reed is incredible. I’ve seen what they do to the soldiers. They come back so badly wounded and they fix them.
Vets for Trump!
Thank you. Thank you. Walter Reed is so great, but they’re all around and they’re saying, “Sir, I think you’re going to have to take it easy for a little while.” Then they gave me something called Regeneron. Did you ever hear of Regeneron? And we’re going to make it available to everybody that needs it free. Free, right? Free. Antibodies. And all I know, and I don’t want to give any credit to this drug, I want to say it was me, because I’m in perfect physical condition, and I’m very young. I’m very young and I’m in perfect physical shape. Perfect. I said that jokingly. I said that a couple of weeks ago. CNN, fake news CNN, went crazy. “He’s not in perfect shape and he’s not young.” They went crazy. They thought it was horrible. A horrible, horrible statement.
No, we did a great job, and I would like to say that the antibody, what they gave me, didn’t help, but it probably did, because I woke up the next morning and I felt like Superman. I wanted to rip my shirt off, just like Clark Kent. Anybody ever hear of Clark Kent? Just like the legendary Clark Kent.
Super-Trump! Super-Trump! Super-Trump! Super-Trump! Super-Trump! Super-Trump!
We’re going to win the election. You know that. We’re going to win. This is much more so than four years ago. I’m looking at some of our great Senators. We’re going to win this election. We’re going to have a great victory. And a lot of people want to go out on Tuesday, they don’t want to go out early. It’s called the Great Red Wave. Wait until you see. They always say, “Sir, could you please ask them to go out on Monday, Sunday?” Because you could go out now, you can vote, right? But I said, “They don’t really want that.” They want to make it a little more convenient for you, but when those boosts open up, you’re going to see something that probably has never seen before. You’ve never seen. In Florida, they’re not doing well. They had to get that lead. That lead’s going to be taken over I think very, very quickly.
The biggest problem we have is if they cheat with the ballots. That’s my biggest problem. That’s the only thing I worry about. If they cheat with the ballots, right? If they cheat with the ballots. And they did find some in a garbage can from the military, military ballots. It had the name Trump written, they wanted to go for Trump. They found them in a garbage can, hundreds of thousands every day. You don’t wake up and not read a story about it. Every day there’s cheating with the ballots. And you have governors, Democrat Governors, that are players, wise guys. Wise guys and it’s a disgrace. In Nevada, we like Nevada, but you’ve got a Governor There that’s a player. And even if you want to speak, they make it very hard to find a location. But we found one and 50,000 people showed up a couple of weeks ago. Latino home ownership is now at an all time high, all time high.
By the way, if you look at new houses, if you look at automobile production, it’s hard to believe, it literally is superseding what we had prior to the pandemic, and nobody is even imagining that. To bring even greater opportunity and prosperity to Latinos and the Latino community, and I say the Latinos and I say the Hispanics, and I have a lot of friends, I say, “What do you like better?” They said, “You can call us anything.” The Latino community in Arizona and around the country, today, I’m announcing the American Dream Plan. Over the next four years, the American Dream Plan will bring more than two million new jobs to Hispanic communities, create over a half a million new Hispanic owned, small businesses, which will end up being large businesses if I know you, and I know you well, great business people, great natural business people, expand opportunities for federal contracting, it’s going to be much easier for you to get some of those jobs, and increase access to capital by hundreds of billions of dollars.
You’re going to be in great shape. You’re going to say, “I liked him very much.” No, if Sleepy Joe gets in, they’re going to ask him about it. He’s not going to have a clue. He’s not going to be able to tell you this. More Hispanic Americans be able to buy a home, to afford quality health insurance, and to raise their families in a beautiful, safe neighborhood. And I will provide school choice to every parent in America, school choice. Joe Biden would obliterate everything Hispanic Americans have worked for, wiping out your small businesses with lock downs and regulations, gutting your police departments, and devastating your families with massive tax hikes.
He will attack Catholic organizations. By the way, Hispanics, generally speaking, don’t like that too much. And ban charter schools fund, extreme late term abortion, and surrender your country to the violent socialist mob. And you see that happening. How about Portland, right? You know how quick we can fix that? Mike Lee, we can fix that in about, what, 30 minutes, right? The Governor has to call up. He said, “Maybe a little bit less.” That’s why we’re going to win a record share of the Hispanic vote this election day. We are going to win a number that’s never been …
… election day, we are going to win a number that’s never been won by a Republican, and maybe, maybe we’re going to beat the Democrats, that will be incredible. That means you’re on your way to great business. In 2016, Arizona voted to fire our failed and corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first. Taken a long time and if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And if I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment it’s because I was elected to fight for you harder than any President has ever fought for their constituents before. To show you how corrupt the Washington media is, I was just, and did you see this? This was just revealed.
It was just revealed that, you know anonymous, you know this anonymous that everybody’s been looking for? That law enforcement could have found early if they wanted to, but everybody was looking for anonymous, turned out to be a low level staffer, a sleazebag who’s never worked in the white house. Anonymous was a nobody, a disgruntled employee who was quickly removed from his job a long time ago for, they tell me in competence, I don’t know what for, but they tell me in competence, you know where he works now? He works at CNN, can you believe it?
He works at CNN. He wrote a phony book, if you heard about anonymous, it was like somebody that was right next to me. I thought it might’ve been Hope Hicks. I thought I might’ve been Jared, I thought a might’ve been Mike Lee from the great state of Utah. I was extremely worried about Rand Paul, maybe it was Rand. I say, low level, low life that I don’t know. I have no idea who he is other than I got to see him a little while ago on television and I think they threw them out a long time ago. His phony book was just based on fake articles and left wing outlets. He worked with the, listen to this, the fake news, New York Times.
Boo!
And he’s an employee of Google, he works for Google, isn’t that nice? Google, the people that you guys are looking at right now, the whole thing was just one more giant hoax from the Washington swamp and a corrupt special interest group. I’ll tell you what, this guy, in my opinion, he should be prosecuted. He should be prosecuted.
Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swap! Drain the swamp!
The left wing media and the swamp are doing everything in their power to try and stop us and by the way, we’re here and they’re not, and their heads are exploding, their heads are exploding. The media has been peddling their lies for the last four years and they’ve had a lot to say, but in the meantime, here we are, and we’re going to win the greatest election and you know what? This election is more important than any election in the history of our country, including the last one and I never thought I’d say that. But you get the last word on November 3rd. You can ensure that when the results pour in, the corrupt media, are you guys ready for this? Look at all of them. Look at all of those corrupt people.
Look at all of those corrupt people. The corrupt media, I used to call them the fake news, I thought it was one of the great terms I made, but it’s not strong enough. The corrupt media is bowing their heads in shame, not cheering for sleepy Joe. I can’t imagine why they want him, I mean, I can’t figure it. That one I can’t figure, but it’s up to you. This is your country and you have to save and create a great, beautiful pathway for your country. Get out and vote. You’re going to show up in record numbers, vote for America and against the corrupt media and against the swamp. And nobody ever told me the swamp was that deep or that vicious, swamp creatures, they are. And some of the worst creatures in the swamp are the rhinos, we got some rhinos. But they are a dying breed, they are a dying breed. They’re getting a little tired, they’re getting a little tired of calling it wrong, it’s incredible.
Under Biden’s cruel and senseless lockdowns countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdose, deferred medical care, alcoholism, abuse, so many different things. The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself, we would say that, we talked about that Rand, right? Rand knows, that’s what happens, what happens to a society, what happens to a country. You take a look at Michigan where she has everybody locked down, we won a case in the Supreme Court, Michigan, the constitutionality we wanted, they said it was unconstitutional but in the meantime, she goes on with the appeals. The only one that’s free to roam in Michigan is her husband, he’s the only one. He’s allowed to go boating and do whatever he wants. We got to open up Pennsylvania, we got to open up North Carolina, we got to open up California, got to open up New York.
If I lived in California, New York, Illinois, I’d vote for Trump. And you know what I used to say? And this comes so well, our relationship because of criminal justice reform and prison reform and all the other things with the African American community, I used to say, what the hell do you have to lose? And they agreed with me and we’re doing incredible. The relationship, what we’ve done is incredible. What we’ve done is incredible. But I say the same thing to the people living in New York, California, Illinois, automatic wins for the Democrats, I say, “Vote for Trump. We’ll cut your taxes. We’ll get you back. We’ll bring it back.” I say, “What the hell do you have to lose? Vote for Trump.” It’s tough when you have those three big States, it’s automatically put into it, it doesn’t matter who runs.
No matter who, if we brought back the late great Abraham Lincoln, New York, California, Illinois. So we got to run the gauntlet. We got to run the coast, right? And that’s what happened last time, we won Florida and we won South Carolina and we won Georgia, we won North Carolina. Remember that was going to be their firewall. That didn’t work out too well for them. And we won Pennsylvania and we just ran the coast, didn’t we? That was one of the most exciting evenings Mike Lee, right? Mike Lee, Utah. And we won Utah, right? And we won them all. We won them all. They said there is no way to 270, remember 270, you need 270. There is no way for Donald Trump, this was at 5 o’clock before the polls. There is no way for Donald Trump to get to 270, we’re wasting our time. I said, “I don’t think so.” But they turned out to be right, we couldn’t get to 270, but we did get to 306.
There is no way, remember that? We won Ohio, Ohio is great, won by eight points. They thought we were going to tie, they thought it was going to be close and they called immediately, Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. And then they said, “Not only won, he’s won by eight points.” That was the beginning. They said, “What’s going on here?” We’re going to have a bigger surprise in six days, Tuesday. If you vote for Biden, it means no kids in school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, and no 4th of July together, other than that, you’ll have a wonderful life. Can’t see anybody, but that’s all right, you’ll have a wonderful life. He wants everyone to, and again, it’s not him. I’m using this but it’s not him.
He’s a puppet for them!
Who said puppet? He is a puppet, he’s a puppet but he’s a beauty, I’ll tell you. Look, look, look, I shouldn’t say this because it’s very disrespectful, but I don’t care because he’s not a nice guy. We have some historians here, true American historians here. He is the worst candidate ever to run in the history of a Presidential election, he is. He’s the worst. That’s why there’s tremendous pressure on me. I wish he was a good candidate. At least if you lost, you could say, “Hey, you lost to a good candidate.” How the hell do you lose to a guy like this? I don’t care, I don’t care. We’re going to win. We got to win! You’re going to lose your country if we don’t win. The worst in Presidential politics, now you’re going to lose your country, it’ll be a disaster. He’s not going to be running things, you have Kamala. If you don’t pronounce her name exactly right she gets very angry at you. And you know what she does when she gets angry? She starts laughing like she did on 60 minutes. Uncontrollable laughs. That means she’s angry.
Sleepy Joe wants to keep everyone locked down forever, including young people, which will cause enormous harm to Hispanic Americans, African Americans, Asian Americans, women, men, everybody. The Biden plan will crush you and your family, my plan will crush the virus and we’re going to be stronger, stronger than ever. Our country will be stronger than ever before. Biden is the candidate of layoffs, lockdowns, and misery. I am the candidate of jobs, vaccines and prosperity. Our early and aggressive action saved over 2 million American lives. We saw it, we had to make a decision, we closed it up, we understood it. Remember, it was supposed to be 2.2 million people we’re going to die. We started doing ventilators, we didn’t have ventilators, we became the King of ventilators, all over the world we’re now sending ventilators, all over the world.
We did a great job. We weren’t acknowledged. We have governors saying what a great job we did. Everybody was saying what a great job. We did a great job, wasn’t acknowledged and that’s okay. But the generals, the admirals, Mike Pence, all of these people that worked on this, they should be acknowledged. We did a job. Remember, Joe Biden with the H1N1, which he always reverses. H1N1, right? He goes, “N1H1,” I said, “No, Joe it’s the other way.” The Swine Flu, right? It’s the Swine Flu. He was a disaster, his chief of staff said they didn’t know what the hell they were doing. And now he’s always telling me I should have acted quicker except when I closed our country to China, because it was so heavily affected and Europe, he was totally against it. He said I’m xenophobic. I said, “Do me a favor? Give me a definition, Joe.” He couldn’t do that because he had no idea what it meant. But here are some of the governors talking about what a great job we’ve all done, we’ve done but what a great job we’ve done in fighting the China virus.
Called the President. He’s quickly gotten on the line. When we asked to get support for that mercyship in Southern California, he was able to direct that in real time.
What the federal government did working with States was a phenomenal accomplishment.
We got 2,000 of these field medical sites that are up, almost all operational now in the state because of his support and those are the facts.
His team has been on it. I know a team when they’re on it and I know a team when they’re not on it. His team is on it. They’ve been responsive late at night, early in the morning.
We are working very well with FEMA region two, and with the Army Core of Engineers building four field hospitals, that was a decision the President himself took and I’m grateful for it.
These were just extraordinary efforts and acts of mobilization and the federal government stepped up. We needed help, and they were there.
He said everything that I could have hoped for and we had a very long conversation and every single thing he said, they followed through on.
We’ve got to have double the number of ventilators that we requested for that area of the state and in fact, we got them in frankly, short order.
Have we lost anyone because we didn’t have a bed or we didn’t have a ventilator or we didn’t have healthcare staff? No.
The President was extending support for new swabs. So conversation, commitment, a promise made, promise kept.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own planes. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle them along during a quickie, escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Okay. Here’s the deal, one of the things that’s important is … Keep in mind, all those are going to vote on …
That was terrifying.
What kind of country we are going to be? Four more years we’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
56% of Americans said that they were better off today than they were four years ago would have been under the Obama/Biden administration. So why should people who feel that they are better off today under the Trump administration vote for you?
Well if they think that they probably shouldn’t. They think 54% of American people are better off economically today than they were in our administration? Well, their memory is not very good quite frankly.
A few moments later.
I’m running as a proud Democrat for the senate, so vote! Vote! Visit [inaudible 00:34:58].com/ohio. We got in trouble when we were running against the Senator who was a Mormon, the governor, okay? Well, their memory is not very good, quite frankly.
It saves a lot of words. In fact, I can go home now. Goodbye everybody.
We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you!
Thank you.
We love you! We love you! We love you!
We only bring those very expensive boards to a very special group of people, it’s quite costly but it does save a lot of talk, doesn’t it? Joe Biden has surrendered his party to the rage, filled Socialists and Marxists and left wing extremists. The Democrats know that Biden is just a vessel to implement their Socialist take over and that’s what they’re trying to do, we can’t let that happen. That’s why his running mate is the number one most Liberal member of the U.S. Senate, a sponsor of this insane, green new deal, $100 trillion, $100 trillion. If we had the greatest 100 years in history, we couldn’t pay $100 trillion dollars. This was made up by AOC plus three, who, I don’t know if she’s ever even studied the environment, has she ever taken a course on the environment? I doubt it. Biden and his party has spent the entire year inciting violence and hatred against our police, our great police. Last night, the city of Philadelphia was ransacked by violent mobs of Biden supporters for a second night in a row.
Boo!
We could have stopped that, that one we could have stopped in 12 minutes. Stores were looted, nearly a dozen people were shot, and dozens of officers were injured, it would have been so easy, we’re waiting for a call. We’ll send in the federal government, have to get a call, we’ll send in the federal government, we’ll solve that problem so quickly. In Seattle, they took over a big part of the city, we said, “Finally, we have to go in.” We didn’t have the permit, we’re doing it anyway. We let them know what going in. As soon as we let them go, “We’re going in tomorrow morning,” we told them, as soon as we did that, they held up their hands and they said, “We’re going home.”
In Minneapolis, we went in a week and a half later and I give the governor some credit, he said, “Let’s go.” But it should have been a week earlier, a week and a half earlier and they formed a line and it ended in 25 minutes, it was all over. Minneapolis. That’s why we’re going to win the great state of Minnesota. We’re going to win Minnesota because of that. For two reasons we’re going to win because of that and Ilhan Omar, we’re going to win because of her too.
Boo!
How the hell did she get elected? She does not like our country, I can tell you. Biden and Harris …
She does not like our country I can tell you. Biden and Harris stand with the rioters and the vandals. I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. And I think I’ve been endorsed by almost every major police group in the United States. And during the debate, I asked him, I said, “Joe, who endorsed you? Any of the law enforcement groups?” He couldn’t name one. He couldn’t name one. Then I said, “Joe, say the words, law enforcement. Say the words, law and order.” He wouldn’t do it. He wouldn’t do it. Number one, he couldn’t remember the two words in conjunction, but more importantly, he didn’t want to lose the radical left because if he says those words, he loses the radical left.
This election day, you must stop the anti-American radicals. I mean, these are radicals. From delivering the far left in thundering defeat, you have to deliver them a defeat like they haven’t seen before. Not just a little one. We don’t want to win this close. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. Last night, we learned that Joe was intimately involved in the Biden family’s corrupt business deals with China while he shipped American jobs to China by the thousands. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, you win. Arizona wins and America wins. And you know that as big as that story was last night, not one mention on social media, not one mention in big tech, not one mention in any of the major outlets, not one mention on any of the networks. Only Fox had it. Fox had it. Tucker did a good job. Sean did a good job. Laura did a good job. Not one mention. So it’s not freedom of the press. It’s you know what we have? Suppression of the press. This is no longer freedom of the press. This is suppression of the press. And we have some very powerful people right here. We cannot let this go on. It’s suppression. It’s unthinkable what’s going on. And yet they’ll write the littlest thing if somebody else does anything or doesn’t have to do it, they make up fake stories.
We’re thrilled to be joined by somebody that’s done a great job and been your great governor, Doug Ducey. Done a great job. Thank you, Doug. Great job.
A woman who’s running for the Senate. Currently a Senator respected by everybody. Her opponent wants to terminate your Second Amendment. Martha McSally. Martha. Great. Martha. Martha, go ahead. Martha, come up just fast. Fast. Fast. Come on quick. You got one minute, one minute, Martha’s sake. They don’t want to hear this, Martha. Com on let’s go quick, quick, quick, quick. Come on. Let’s go.
I’m coming. Thank you, President Trump. Arizona, we are ground zero to save the country. We have six days and just a few hours. President Trump and the country are counting on us to send him back to the White House for four more years. Everything is on the line and my race is about the Senate majority. Everything I wore the uniform for and all you veterans did is on the line. Everything is on the line. We’ve got to bring it home, Arizona.
In my race will decide the direction of the country the radical left can take over in the Senate. So if you want someone who’s going to be Joe Biden and Chuck Schumer’s 51st vote to take away our freedoms and our Second Amendment rights and all the things the president talk about, then you got a guy named Mark Kelly. But if you want to fighter, if you want to continue to have a fighter who is proud to work with President Trump for the great American comeback and strong military and secure our borders and your Second Amendment rights, then I’m your girl, Arizona. I’m your girl. Vote Trump-McSally and let’s save the country. God bless you, sir.
Thank you. Thank you, Martha. Thank you. Very important. And you know, you can think of a lot of things, but think about your Second Amendment. His sole function is to terminate your Second Amendment, and all of them, that’s what they want to do and they’re in lockstep.
A friend of mine, a great Senator, somebody that has extraordinary common sense. That’s one of the reasons he’s a successful man at what he does. Senator Rand Paul. Come on up, Rand. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on up. Come on.
Thank you. Here’s to immunity.
Two immune people.
I’ve got a message for independents and libertarians. My message is this. If you hate war like I hate war, if you want America to be supporting America, not spending our money overseas and wasting lives overseas in unwinnable endless wars, you need to support the president who said this in his State of the Union, he said, “Great nations don’t fight perpetual wars.”
Thank you. That’s right.
I have a message for African-Americans across our country. Biden and Clinton failed you. The Biden Clinton crime bill locked up a generation unfairly, locked up a generation of young black men. Joe Biden said, “Lock them up. They’re super predators. Throw away the key.” Joe Biden is responsible for decimating our black community. When Mike Lee and I went to talk to the president about the First Step Act, my wife was involved. We talked about how unfair it is. Look at all the families out there. Can anybody say your family’s immune from the scourge of drugs? You haven’t had a kid or a cousin or a nephew or somebody that got hooked on drugs?
This president and I tried with President Obama and we got nowhere, but this president passed the First Step Act that let these people that were serving 30 years in jail for nonviolent crimes, he set their freedom. And I have a message for those of you who are sick and tired of both Republican and Democrat presidents sending your money overseas to countries that hate us. President Trump says, and I say, not one penny more for these countries that hate us.
Thank you, Rand. What a good guy.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Great job, Rand. Thank you very much.
We have another great Senator from the State of Utah and he’s a smart one, he’s a good one, he’s a respected one. Mike Lee, come on up. Come on, Mike.
[foreign language 00:08:31]. To my Catholic friends, think about a couple of things as you approach the [inaudible 00:46:54] and your friends do. Think about Amy Coney Barrett, and think about the Little Sisters of the Poor. To my Protestant and evangelical friends, we have to remember this by the grace of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, that we’ve had four years of prosperity and peace. To my Mormon friends, my Latter-day Saints friends think of him as [inaudible 00:00:47:25]. He seeks not the praise of the world or the fake news, but he seeks the wellbeing and peace of the American people. Are you ready to stand with me and millions and millions of others who want four more years?
Yes.
[foreign language 00:09:48].
Thank you, Mike. Good job. Thank you very much, Rand and Mike. What a job. Thank you. That’s why they’re successful senators and respected by everybody. Thank you.
We have another great friend. I think he’s going to be replacing Nancy Pelosi soon. I really believe that. House Minority Leader, Kevin McCarthy. Come up, Kevin. Where’s Kevin? He’s going to replace craziness. He’s an incredible guy. My friend.
Thank you, sir. All right. We got one mission. We’re going to elect the man who kept more promises than he ever made. When we elect him, we’re going to have a house that defends him, that stands for America. And when that day comes, I want you all to come to the swearing in. It’ll be before we swear in the president again, but the reason why I want you to come, I want you to watch Nancy Pelosi hand me that gavel. I promise you this, I won’t bang her with it, but I’ll bang the end to the socialism and yes to America.
It’s all up to you. If you asked me the one state that determines our future, it’s Arizona. I will promise you this. I’ve never seen a man work harder. I’ve never seen a man fight harder and he’s never asked anything, but to make America first. Thank you and God bless.
Thank you. Wow. Kevin McCarthy. Thank you, Kevin. Beautiful. Really beautiful. Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you.
So two people that have fought hard, love your state, they’re tough. They’re brilliant and they are warriors, Andy Biggs and Debbie Lesko. Where are you? Look at you. Thanks, Andy. Thanks, Debbie.
A friend of mine, a lot of people say one of the most powerful men in Europe, Nigel Farage. Come on up, Nigel. He’s a very non-controversial person too. That’s all he’s got. Come on, Nigel. He’s very shy.
Oh, I’m known controversial and shy compared to you. I got to say four years ago, I was honored to come to America to bring the Brexit message. The message that you can beat the establishment. And that is what Donald Trump did. He beat the pollsters. He beat the media. He beat all the predictions and here’s the worst bit they’ve never forgiven him for it. They’ve never ever forgiven him, they have spent four years trying to de-legitimize him. Four years of the Russia hoax, four years of a false impeachment. Most human beings under that barrage would’ve given up. This is the single most resilient and bravest person I have ever met in my life.
And when you vote next week, you are not just voting for who the president of the United States of America is, vital though that question may be, you are voting for the leader of the free world. You are voting for the only current leader in the free world who has got the guts to stand up and fight for the nation states, to fight for patriotism, to fight against globalism. You’ll be voting for the only leader in the Western world with a real courage to stand up to the Chinese communist party. You’ll be voting for decency, plain speaking and a man who in four years, hasn’t just cut your taxes. Hasn’t just improved the economy. But a man who right now is bringing Israel together with Arab nations in a way that nobody ever believed was possible, and that’s what he’s done. And I wish you God’s speed. I really do.
Thank you, Nigel. That’s something. Wow. I’m glad I called him up. Thank you very much, Nigel. That’s something. He’s responsible for a lot of things that have happened over in Europe. Very positive things too. Thank you very much.
A friend of mine who is a brilliant, brilliant gentleman, he loves fights. He just loves fighting. He’s somebody that’s made a lot of money with fighting. A lot of people say, “Oh, let’s not fight,” but he disagrees. He owns that he’s the head of the UFC. You know what that is? Dana White. The great Dana White. Thank you, Dana. Thank you. This guy is something, I’ll tell you. What a job he’s done.
State treasurer, Kimberly Yee. Kimberly. Kimberly. Where’s Kimberly? Thank you, Kimberly. Good job, you’re doing. How are the finances? Okay? You’re doing well? Good.
Maricopa County Supervisor, Clint Hickman. Thank you, Clint. Good job, Clint.
GOP chair, she’s tough, she’s smart and she’s with us and she’s always been with us. She works hard. Kelli Ward.
He’s great. He’s great.
So thank you all very much. That was very interesting. I didn’t think I’d have anyone speak, but it was one after another I’m glad they did it, right? That was great. We don’t usually do that. Usually it gets a little boring when people speak and this group was a hell of a group. Thank you all. Thank you all very much.
Together, we built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. We increased middle-class family income over $5,000, more than five times the gains under the last administration. After the virus arrived, we passed $3 trillion of economic relief and saved over 50 million jobs, many in your state, many, many in your state. We’ve experienced the smallest contraction and the fastest recovery economically by far of any major nation in the world. That’s a big thing. And our numbers are going to be coming out very shortly, very soon. GDP, and the Fed in Atlanta just made a prediction, they said 35%. Now, I’ll take 25 right now. 35 would be many times larger than the largest number we’ve ever had. GDP, the all-important GDP, 35 is what they predict and let’s see what happens. And it’ll be three days before the election. So I’ll make you a deal. If the number’s a bad number, you don’t have to-
… election. So I’ll make you a deal, if the number’s a bad number, you don’t have to vote for me. Okay? But I think it’s going to be incredible. If you look at housing starts, if you look at automobile and all the productivity that we’ve had, if you looked at hiring, 11.4 million people over a short period of time. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in US history. And we built over 400 miles of new wall, including 200 miles right here in the State of Arizona, 200 miles. It goes down very deep and it goes up very high. There are two reasons it goes down deep. One is to hold it up, and the other is for tunnels. You never had it so good. And your numbers are fantastic.
Joe Biden has pledged to open borders. He even said, “Maybe we’ll rip down the wall.” I don’t think that’s going to happen. He wants open borders. If you don’t have borders, you don’t have a country. His plan would completely eliminate our borders, by implementing nationwide catch and release. You catch them, killer, a rapist, whoever it is, and you release them into our country. And then in the debate, he said, “Oh, but they come back for trial.” No, they don’t, Joe. They don’t come back. You don’t see them again. This would trigger a tsunami of illegal immigration from every corner, all over the world.
That’s right.
He’s also pledged to, and you know what he wants to do, give free healthcare and mass amnesty for all illegal border crosses, bankrupting your Medicare and your social security systems. I don’t think so. And we all have a heart. We want to take care of people, but everybody all over the world would pour into our country. We wouldn’t be able to do it. Under Biden’s plan, you’ll have no borders, no healthcare, no middle-class. You’ll have no country, frankly. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including nearly $1 billion to build the world’s most advanced guided missiles. Guess where we’re building them? Right here in Arizona. Right? We also passed the VA Choice and VA Accountability, things said that, “You’ll never get them done, sir. You’ll never get it done.” We got them both done. Accountability, where we can fire bad people that work at the VA, that don’t love our vets. We take care of our vets and now they don’t have to wait for two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks.
Now they go, and if they can’t get good service… We have great doctors in the VA. But if you can’t get the service, you go to a local doctor, a local hospital, we take care of the bill. We have a 91% approval rating now, the highest ever by far with our guys. We took 100% of the ISIS caliphate and we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s top terrorist. Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal. $150 billion for nothing, for nothing. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and even got it built. And even got it built. Right? I even got it built. Got it built for, supposed to cost $2 billion, we did it for 500,000, a slight cost underrun. That was called the cost underrun. You don’t see that in government too much. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been working on that for 52 years. I got it done in about two hours. Every president promised these things, but they never got them done.
There’s a lot of pressure on people when you have that Jerusalem, Golan Heights, a lot of pressure, but we got them done. And instead of never ending wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. We are forging peace. And I’ve said this, and I’ve said it a lot, but I meet it with every breath, I’ve done more in 47 months then sleepy Joe Biden has done in 47 years and it’s true. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs and the American dream. Abraham Lincoln was a great Republican, and [inaudible 01:01:32] remember that. I can be more presidential than any president other than possibly Abraham Lincoln, when he’s wearing the hat. That’s a tough one. No, he was a great Republican.
Over the next four years, in conclusion, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already started. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, right here in Arizona. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend religious liberty free speech, the right to life and the right to keep and bear arms, Second Amendment. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. That’s what we have. And the 2.5 trillion, all made in the USA, we have the finest missiles and rockets and tanks and submarines and jets, the F-35 stealth. You can’t see it.
“Sir, you can’t see it. That makes it good.” I said, “I think that makes it good. What do I know?” But I know if you’re the opponent and you can’t see the jet, you know what? You got a little advantage there. Now we have the best in the world and our nuclear arsenal has been refurbished and restocked and hope to God, we never have to use it. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. Already completed, goes into effect… Bigger than healthcare, you watch on January 1st. Lower drug prices, even more. First year in 52 years, that drug prices, prescription went down, when I instituted what’s called a favored-nations clause. We pay the most in the world. We’re now going to be tied for the lowest price in the world. We will protect your social security and your Medicare. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And NASA is now again the preeminent space station. There’s nothing like what we have. What a job they’ve all done, including our great Vice President, Mike Pence. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.” For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the people of Arizona. From tombstone to Tucson, right? Tucson, does anybody come from Tucson? My friend comes from Tucson. From Mesa to Yuma, from Prescott to right here in Goodyear. Good year.
We inherit the legacy of red blooded American patriots, who poured out their heart, sweat and soul to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. This great state was settled by some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk the face of this great, wonderful, beautiful planet. Arizona’s where Wyatt Earp and Doc Holiday became American legends. It’s where the great American West became the American dream. And Arizona is the state where generations of pioneers and prospectors, miners and ranchers, cowboys, and cattle hands, marshals and lawman, tamed the frontier, braved the blazing sun, like I’m doing right now, and showed the entire world how the west was won. They helped make America into the greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Arizona… Go out and vote. Go out and vote. We have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again, proud. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Thank you, Arizona. Go out and vote. Thank you.
That’s a lot of people. Wow.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA-
Thank you very much. This is quite a crowd. This is quite a crowd. Thank you very much. Hello, Arizona. Hello, Arizona, and hello to everybody right here in Nevada. I love Nevada too. You got Nevada. We have Arizona. How many people are from Arizona? How many people are from Nevada? Not bad, not bad. That’s not bad. Six days from now, we are going to win Arizona. We are going to win Nevada, and we are going to win four more years in our great White House.
Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.
Ah, look at the fake news back there. There’s a lot of them. There’s a lot of them. I got a poll this morning. We’re one up in Wisconsin, right? We were there last night. It was very cold. It was very cold, but we had a great time. A tremendous crowd like this, a tremendous crowd. Then, tonight I hear, last night that I heard, but this morning I get a fake poll. We’re one up in a real poll. We’re even, or whatever, but we’ll end up winning it. But I get a poll, ABC, Washington posts, they’re fakes. Trump 17 down in Wisconsin. 17. Think of it. Think of it.
They tried it last time, four years ago too, and that didn’t work out too well. It’s just unbelievable how dishonest the media is. I say it because there they are, just very dishonest people. Very dishonest. To vote for me, is a vote for massive middle class tax cuts, regulation cuts, fair trade, strong borders and American energy independence. It’s a vote to support our police, support our military, defend our Second Amendment, which is siege, stand up to China and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase. You know what the phrase is? Made in the USA.
We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine is coming very quickly. You’re going to have it momentarily that eradicates the virus and we’re rounding the turn regardless. You know that. We’ve got the vaccine. I say, regardless, they’ll say, “Well, maybe you don’t.” We have it. Great companies, and quickly ends the pandemic. Should have never come here from China. They should have never let it out. We’ll never forget. All over the world, all over the world. You see what’s happening in Europe, all over the world. Normal life will fully resume. That’s what we want, right? Normal life. Normal life.
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. A vote for Sleepy Joe Biden, and he is a sleepy guy. I tell you what. It’s a powerful party and the party is totally joined with a fake news radio, the lame stream media right there. They’re totally joined with the big tech. I don’t know. Section 230. Does anyone know what Section 230? You do. Section 230, I think wha? Tremendous corruption on behalf of the Biden. Tremendous. Do you know you can’t find it anywhere in the media, other than the New York Post, which I’m very proud of, and they endorsed me the other day too, by the way.
But, you can’t find it anywhere in the media. Anywhere. It’s not on any of the, it’s not in Facebook. They have trending. They always put me trending. They’ll give you 25 things I’ve done over my life. They make it negative, always negative trending. But Sleepy Joe Biden, with all the corruption, all the theft, all the money they took out of these countries, that we end up paying for in spades. You can’t find it on big tech and you can’t find it at the Washington Post, the New York Times, because they’re crooked, they’re dishonest, and we caught him. We caught him, just like we caught him spying on our campaign. Just like we caught him spying on our campaign.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
We caught him spying.
USA, USA, USA. We want Trump. We want Trump.
A vote for Biden is a vote for the biggest tax hike in the history of our country. This is the only guy I’ve ever seen … He’s campaigning because he has no clue. He’s shot. Just so you understand. I’ll say it, because I’ve said, “Hey, I’ve seen enough. I’ve seen enough. Here’s a guy, gets caught and the media doesn’t want to write about it.” You know what? They call it? Not freedom of the press, suppression of the press. We don’t have freedom of the press. You know what? We don’t have … you understand that? We don’t have freedom of the press. We have suppression of the press. There’s never been a time when it’s more obvious than right now. Is that right? Is that right, Charlie?
Hi, Dan. He wants crushing regulation. By the way, he doesn’t want them. He has no idea where he is. They carried him off the stage yesterday. Give me a break. His people grabbed him, “Get him off, get him off.” He’s trying to make it to the finish line. I mean, it’s honestly, it’s a disgrace. The whole thing is a con job. He should have never been the candidate. You know what? They have a corrupt party and all of this work being done by big tech and being done by the media, that should be considered a major, massive, billion dollar campaign contribution because that’s what it is. They slashed Medicare and Social Security. He wants to knock out your Medicare, your Social Security, and he wants to abolish a thing called American energy.
You see that, right? No fracking. There will be no fracking. No. For a year, he’s going no fracking. He gets the nomination. He goes to Pennsylvania. They tell him, “Joe, you have to change.” “Okay. What do you want to say?” “I love fracking. Say, I love.” He goes from no fracking, to I love fracking. A vote for Sleepy Joe Biden is a vote for open borders, off-shoring jobs, shredding your Second Amendment, which is totally under siege, by the way. You’re so lucky I’m your president.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Thank you. Thank you. What a nice group. By the way, we are substantially up in a state known as Arizona. You know about that, right? Substantially. I hear we’re up in Nevada. Is that right? Michael? We’re up in Nevada. We’re a little concerned with all those ballots floating around in Nevada, got a lot of ballads floating around in Nevada. You got a lot of ballots floating around in Nevada. Hey, you know, it’s windy as hell out here. I said, “Is it windy? Should I bring a hat?” Because, I don’t Love my hair flopping around. One thing, at least they figured out after three years than it is mine. If it wasn’t, I would have found out about it today.
Should I put on a hat?. Should I put it on? Like Nice hat. I want to know, who has worn this hat before? That’s all I want to know. It’s pretty nasty. Am I allowed to do it? I’ll do it, if you want. Otherwise … what a guy. Yes? Better? Nice hat. We’re going to change your hat. We made America great again. We created the greatest economy in the history of the world, and then we had the plague come in from China, and now we’re doing it again. Our numbers are unbelievable. By the way, you’re going to have a very big number. I even say, hold off in your vote until it happens, because a lot of you want to wait until Tuesday anyway, which is going to be a great, great red wave.
But you know what? Before that happens, I don’t know what it is, but the Atlanta fed just predicted a very big number, biggest in the history of our country. You’re going to have GDP coming out. It’s going to be announced. It’s going to be announced probably on the first, maybe a day before the first. If that number is not big, you don’t even have to vote for me. Okay? I think it’s going to be, maybe, the biggest number in the history of our country. GDP. That’s your big number Right? I’m taking a chance when I say that you don’t even have to vote for me. Okay? Who here, is voting for Trump.
Thank you. Thank you. Good of you to get out now. Is anybody sending in a ballot, or you’re going in and doing it the old-fashioned way? That’s what I did. I just did that. But whatever you do, you have to go out and vote. Who here, is going to vote for Sleepy Joe Biden. I had a leader of a country call up. He’s a very tough leader, tough as hell. They’re going to figure it out, maybe. Although they wouldn’t, if it was right, if it was good, they were not going to report it. He said, “I hope Biden doesn’t win because he’s always slipping.” That was an interesting thing he said.
This is a killer. Says, “I hope he doesn’t win, because he’s always sleeping.” Here. I thought he was being funny. I said. “You happen to be right about that.” This election is a choice between a Trump super-recovery and a Biden depression. You will have a depression, the likes of which you haven’t seen before, maybe 1929. He wants to raise your taxes, put regulations back on. Remember this. Get rid of your Second Amendment. Remember this. Remember this. Pro-life, anybody pro-life? There’s so many differences. This is the single biggest election, in my opinion, and I never thought I’d say it, in the history of our country.
This is the biggest. The biggest in the history of our country. It’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden lockdown. He’ll close it up. He’ll close it up. It’s really something. We talk about the American dream. We had the American dream. It was all coming together. There was going to be, believe it or not, unity. I was getting calls from people, you wouldn’t believe it, and then we had this thing can come in. It came in and it came in very … The invisible enemy came in and we went back to work and we saved 2 million people. It was going to be 2.2 million people. We say, maybe more than that, but it’s a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. That’s what it is. The reason it’s such an important, is because, you’ve heard me say it many times, our country will never be a socialist country, and that’s where they want to take us.
That’s where they want to take us. I’m fighting for the dreams of all Americans, including millions of truly amazing Hispanic-Americans. Who’s Hispanic? Who’s Hispanic? Oh, they’re shocked. They don’t believe it. The polls with Hispanics are through the roof. They’re reporting on it. I said, “I never had a problem. I always liked Hispanic,” but they’re really, they’re getting to understand me and the incredible progress that we’ve made. The polls with Hispanic- Americans are the highest ever, in the history of our country for a Republican. But it could be that we’re going to top them, and once we top them, you’re going to forget about them because we’ve really gotten along. The poll, by the way, who saw the debate the other day? Did anybody. Anybody watch it?
You see the poll? 91 to nine. That’s I don’t know [inaudible 00:15:31] 91 to nine. That’s not bad. I got angry at the media. I thought it should have been better than that. I felt like Perry Mason, because he admitted right in the end, his last name. I said, “Does that mean you don’t like oil, Joe?”Ah, ah, well, ah, ah.” No, it’s Perry Mason. Do you ever watch? Colombo? How about Colombo? It’s the same thing. Right at the end, does that mean, oh did he blow it? They’ve been working for five days and then they had to go to Pennsylvania where fracking’s a big deal, right? How about Texas? You think they like him in Texas? No oil. Think of this. No oil, no guns. Second Amendment. No God, religion. Then I hear, Trump has a one point lead in Texas. I don’t think so. You know, I used to hear this four years ago, all the time.
He cannot win the great state of Ohio. He must win it. We won by eight points. Trump has never done this before. He cannot win Texas, under no circumstances. He can not win Texas. We won. I don’t know, by a lot, whatever it was. Remember Utah? We had the guy from Utah. He was a specialist in Utah. He was going to win Utah. He came in third. Even crooked Hillary beat that guy. Remember, he shaved his head. Nice shaved head. Nice guy. Do you remember his name? Yeah, I remember his name. He’s one of the others, another rhino. We have, we’re against a lot.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years-
Jesus. I didn’t start it. I didn’t start it.
Donald Trump, Donald Trump, Donald Trump-
I’m an innocent bystander. Every time that starts, “He started it,” so I always act extremely innocent. They start … All I have to do is mention her name, crooked disgraceful, deplorable, irredeemable. They said, deplorable and irredeemable. Who have thought her speech would have turned out to be, she came out, she said, “Deplorable,” but she also said irredeemable. To show you what I know, I said, “Oh, she used the word irredeemable about our people.” But it was deplorable that caught on. Right? But, whoever her speech-writer is, I don’t want him or her. That was a disaster, but I never thought it was going to be that bad. The next day I showed up at a rally. Everybody said, “I’m a deplorable, I’m a deplorable.”
Oh boy. But she was a lot smarter than Sleepy Joe, but they’ve got a little bit different kind of a thing going right now. They’re more desperate. They’re more desperate. They’re totally desperate, because they have a candidate … I mean, let’s not kid ourselves. They took him off the stage yesterday. You saw that, right? He called me George. He thought I was George Bush. He called me George. It’s unbelievable. I didn’t know if I was happy or if I wasn’t, because he called me … I mean, and his wife was sitting right next to him and she’s looking like, “Huh?” [inaudible 00:18:42] You could see she was under great, great stress. For the last four years … by the way, these suckers are moving like hell. I think, let’s go off those. Isn’t it nice to have a president that doesn’t need a teleprompter? Right?
They are moving like crazy. They are moving like crazy. And that’s okay with me.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you and I love you. I do. I love you. I love you. You know, that’s a phrase and they say it, I think even the fake news would admit it. Nobody’s ever heard, “We all liked Ronald Reagan.” But nobody ever said, “We love you. We love you. We love you.” And he wouldn’t get crowds like this. If Ronald Reagan who I consider to be top-notch. If he came here, he’d have a couple hundred people legitimately. He’d go into a ballroom someplace inside. He’d go into a ballroom and it’d have two, 300 people. And that’s what the standard was. We’re having 25, 30, 35, 40, 45,000 people.
And I’d leave some of these crowds, we were packed in Florida and all these places. And I’d leave some of the crowds and I’d look at that. Look at that. You can’t even see the end. You can’t even see. If they were legitimate, they never show it on camera. They never show it on camera. Get the mic turned up. Turn it on. They never ever show it. They don’t like to show it. You know what they do show? Barack Hussein Obama yesterday. They made the mistake. The camera’s slipped and they showed his crowd. He had about 20 people that there. Barack Hussein.
Which was about 10 people more than Sleepy Joe had yesterday. You know he saw. We were in Pennsylvania. Right? You saw that. And we had three rallies all in Pennsylvania. It was incredible. Thousands and thousands and thousands of people. And Joe was in his basement and he saw it, and his handlers much more importantly saw it. They say, “Sleepy Joe, we have to get you out of here. We got to move you in there. I mean, it’s not looking good.” Because you know they put a lid on. You know a lid for a garbage cans. That’s where it comes from. They put a lid on and he has a lid today again. The guy’s got lids every damn day.
And then he said he doesn’t want to have big crowds. Really? Because of COVID. He’s such a great citizen. He’s such a great guy. Then why did he cheat so much with Hunter? Where’s Hunter, by the way? Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? Remember we did the T-shirt where’s Hunter? It’s all I got. Now we have it’s called the laptop from hell. The laptop from hell. It’s the greatest laptop I’ve ever seen. This thing is gold. It’s gold, except for the news that doesn’t want to look at it. They refuse to look at it. This is the laptop from hell.
It’s the worst. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it, except for Anthony Wiener, that was a long time. I would rate Anthony’s maybe even worse. I don’t know. Anthony, that was not good. For the last four years I’ve been delivering the Hispanic Americans a message like they haven’t heard for a long time. I’m fighting for school choice. Right, right? School choice, big deal.
Safe neighborhoods. Hispanic-owned small businesses. We have great, great business people here. I know some of them. I’ve helped some of them [inaudible 00:22:51] incredible, oh these people don’t know what the hell they’re doing. Let me recover my ears for one second. Who did this microphone, don’t pay them. You know I have a reputation for not paying and it’s a false reputation. When somebody does a lousy job like a microphone that’s no good or like teleprompters that fly with the wind. I say, don’t pay him. But we love our incredible Hispanic American members of law enforcement that we have a lot of them here today. We achieved the lowest Hispanic in America, right? The lowest Hispanic American unemployment ever recorded, not even close. And we’re getting back to those numbers again. The last number of months, 11.4 million, a record. People were hired. Joe Biden would obliterate every single thing that we’ve done. He’s looking to do that. He’s looking to obliterate our tax cuts. He wants to. So we gave tax cuts, the biggest in history. He wants to end the tax cuts. He wants to end the child tax credits, a thousand dollars per child. He wants to end up them.
Wiping out your small businesses with lockdowns, regulations, gutting your police departments and devastating your families with the massive tax hikes. I said it’s the biggest in history. It’s not going to happen. You know why it’s not going to happen? Because he’s not going to win. We can’t have win. He will attack religious liberty and his running mate, the most liberal member of Congress, she makes Bernie Sanders look like a super conservative. Okay? I don’t think she’s for the people of Arizona or Nevada.
And we want to know who are their judicial nominees? Who are they? Who are you going to put on the court? You know they want to pack the courts, right? How do you like our nominee Amy? Right? Biden wants to ban charter schools, fund extreme late-term abortion. You know he wants to fund late-term even beyond late-term. You saw the governor of Virginia, the child is born and then they make a decision as to execution of the child. You saw that. The governor of Virginia and Biden, Biden totally supports him and surrender your country to the violent socialists mob.
Take a look at Philadelphia last night, take a look. And we offered to go in. We’d stop that in two minutes. We offered to go in and they said, “Stand back. Stand back to the police.” The police want to do their job. They don’t want that to happen. They’re good. I think they endorsed me too. Everybody. All police departments endorse me. That’s why we are going to win a record share of Hispanic Americans, of African Americans, of Asian Americans. We’re going to win a historic share of women.
Remember, last time? “He will not get women.” Remember? “He will not get women.” Well, it didn’t work out that way. Right? “The end of the night, I don’t know what happened. He got a lot of women.” We did very well with women. You know why? Women are very smart. They want security. They want safety. If they’re from suburbia, the suburban women, they give me a hard time on suburban women, the fake news. You know what they want? They want security and they don’t want their neighborhood destroyed. And I ended the regulation that would destroy their neighborhood.
But I’m not just running against Joe Biden, I’m running against a left-wing mob and the left-wing media, the big tech giants. And I’m also running against the RINOs. Do you know what a RINO is? A RINO may be the lowest form of human life. I actually sort of liked the others better than the RINOs. You know why? Wow. That plane’s about four-days-old and we have all brand new equipment at F-35s and everything. We’re the envy of the world. You know what? We are the envy. Do you know about that, Dan? Look at the sucker. He’s tried to show off to the president. Yeah, that’s one of ours. I’ve got to be sure about that. Got to be careful.
And they have nothing, but disdain for you and for your values. They lecture you on open borders. By the way, we don’t have borders. They want to have open borders, you know? We’re just now completing the wall. The wall will be finished very soon. Mexico will be paying for the wall by the way. They lecture you on everything. If a country doesn’t… I love that sound. I love it. You don’t know what I went through to get those suckers up there. I had to get that money from the Democrats. Oh, look at that. Look, look, look. Oh, look at that. They gave the president the little display. Wow. How about that? How about that.
I wonder if the fake news caught that. Did you see that camera? Because they never turn the camera. They don’t want to show anything that’s good. Wow. That was something, huh? So they were trying to get our attention with the independent over here and he got my attention, even though he was very high, but that was beautiful. Nobody in the world has the equipment than we have. Listen to that. Ah, I love it.
You don’t know hard it is to get Democrats to pay for that stuff. They don’t realize how important it is. They support crippling lockdowns while their jobs remain totally exempt. They keep your kids out of school and you know what they want to teach you in school? We don’t teach that in school. We’ve ended that. Their families, they have private tutors. They want to take away your guns. Your second amendment. Your second amendment is so under siege, but we’re going to keep your second amendment. Nothing’s going to be changing.
I don’t see the people of Arizona or Nevada, about 19% of the people here are from Nevada. Oh, don’t worry. I just left them Nevada by the way. I’ll be back there very soon. And they all have armed guards. We got to tell these people don’t have armed guards. They don’t want you to have guards. From now on, no more armed guards. Let’s outlaw armed guards. You like that, right?
How about Nancy Pelosi? She goes into San Francisco and she wants to get her beautiful hair redone. And she ends up with a total Trump supporter as the owner of the beauty parlor. I like that woman. I’ve got to go and have my hair done by that woman. She was great. Man is it windy. [inaudible 00:30:43] I think It’s from the F-35 that we just saw. With your vote, you can send a wealthy liberal hypocrites a message that they’ll never forget. Under Biden’s cruel and census lockdowns, countless Americans will die and you know this. From suicide drugs, deferred medical care.
There’s so many different things. The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. And Arizona you’re opened up, but Nevada, get your governor to open up your state please. Get them to open up your state. Nevada, get them to open. Get them to open it up. If you vote for Biden, your kids will not be in school. He wants to shut it down. He was saying the other day just, did you see? “Oh, we’ll shut it down.” Let me tell you it is devastating for our nation. And we did just the right thing. We closed it down. We understood the disease. It affects as an example, me. Guess who had it? I had it. I’m sure none of you heard that story.
In fact, this rally. Usually we set up the rallies. We don’t call them rallies anymore, we call them friendly protests because you’re allowed to protest, but you’re not allowed to go to church. You’re not allowed to have dinner with your friends. You can’t do anything. Right? You can’t do anything. So we call everything a protest, this way we have no problem. No, we have states where you can only protest. You can’t do anything else. So we cancel rallies then I had the idea. I said, “Wait a minute. Let’s just go to protest.” We had a lot of people. We had a good time. With Sleepy Joe, that’d be no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving. They’re already talking about no Thanksgiving. And in California you have a special mask. You cannot under any circumstances take it off. You have to eat through the mask. Right? Right, Charlie. It’s a very complex mechanism. And they don’t realize those germs, they go through it like nothing. They look at you with that contraption and they say, “That’s an easy one, I’ll go right through with the food.” Now how about California though? Where you’re supposed to eat with the mask. You can’t take it off.
You see, people? And boy you know when you have spaghetti and meat sauce, that mask is not looking. You walk out, it looks like you got into a fight with Dana White. Where’s Dana? You fought one of Dana White. I saw Dana White. Does anybody know who Dana White is? It looks like you got into a fight with one of his fighters, right? Now, you don’t have Christmas. You don’t have the 4th of July. Now, we got to get back to normal, but you got to open up the states.
By the way, just so you know, on November 4th, they’ll announce your state is open. And on November 4th, all of a sudden the COVID, COVID, COVID. You turn on television, we have great numbers. We have some incredible numbers. You know, mortality is way down and way better than Europe and other places. All sorts of things are happening with therapies, the therapeutics, cures, I think maybe a cure. I wasn’t feeling great. And I was surrounded by doctors and they gave me something and the next day, I felt I could take this guy in a fight like no problem, no problem.
But Sleepy Joe, I don’t think Sleepy Joe would be a good fighter. Do you? I asked Dana before. One gentle little touch to the face and he’s down. He’s down and he wouldn’t get up very quickly either, would he? Joe Biden’s only idea, remember he said, “I’d like to take him to the back of the barn.”
Okay. Have I ever said that to him? That’d say, “He practices violence. The president practices violence.” No, that’s right. Remember he said? “I would take him to the back.” That’s like if you have to fight somebody, that’s your dream fight. Right? Sleepy Joe. This guy never leaves. You know, he never leaves. They have something because I’m doing three, four of these a day and you think that’s easy, right? The sun is blazing. The wind is going crazy. I did one last night in Michigan, it was about 30 degrees and it was raining and the rain was going sideways like one of these jobs.
But we had an incredible crowd of people because you know, they’re all great. They’re all like us, the same. They love our country, that’s what they do. They love our country. I brought so many auto plants to Michigan. If I don’t win Michigan, that would be a tough one. And look what we’ve done for this one here. Look, both of you, both of you for both of your states. The Biden [inaudible 00:35:51] These guys. Yeah, that’s right. You can. No, it’s probably a RINO is operating the thing. They’re having a bad day today. They’re having a bad day, but we’re having a good day. Thank you. It’s all right. Don’t worry. Hey fellas, don’t worry about it. It’s okay. Don’t worry about it.
The Biden plan will crush you, will crush your family. We will crush the virus and you will have an economy the likes of which we’ve never had before, better than last year. You had your best year ever last year. This is going to be better and you see where we’re going. It’s a super V. It’s a super V. Since the China virus arrived, we’ve air lifted amounts of material the likes of which nobody has done since the second World War. It’s one of the greatest ever. Nobody has done since the second World War.
We pioneered groundbreaking therapies and I’m telling you we’re down 85%. Think of that. Think of that. Down 85%. Nobody has any idea what that means and that’s all been done within a short period of time. And you know, I say it. So I had it, my wife had it, our great first lady. Does everybody like our first lady? She’s great. She made a speech yesterday in Pennsylvania and they loved her. She made a speech. She’s a very elegant woman. She gets it almost as hard as I do. They go after her and she’s cool. She’s very cool. She goes, “Oh, that’s okay. No problem.”
Me, I want to go get them. I want to. She goes, “That’s no problem. That’s no problem.” She’s got a very extreme confidence somehow. She’s just, “That’s okay. It’s all right.” She says, “That’s their problem, not my problem.” How cool is that, right? But she did a great job. She got-
How cool is that, right? But she did a great job. She got actually great reviews. She made a speech in Pennsylvania and it was fantastic. She’s a great first lady. She really loves you. She loves our country. But she had it. She got better. I had it. I got better. But Barron had it. Barron. Baron is my young son who happens to be very tall. He’s tall. Hi, Barron. How you doing? Barron’s 14. When you’re six-foot-five and you’re 14, that’s pretty tall. I walk out of the helicopter with Baron. “Hi, Barron. You having a good time?” But he’s strong.
The doctor, Sean, he’s a great doctor. He goes… He’s the White House doctor… “Sir, Barron has tested positive, sir, sorry to inform you.” I say, “Oh, that’s bad. What does that mean? Positive for what?” He goes, “For COVID.” You know, we have about 30 names, China virus, the Plague, whatever you want to… the plague from China. We have to be accurate. “Barron has tested positive.” And I said, “That’s too bad.” Like two minutes later I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, it’s okay. It’s all gone.”
99.9%, right? You know, they have strong immune systems, much stronger than our immune system. Much, much stronger. I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment that I received. And what we’re going to do is we’re making it, because I had a thing called Regeneron. We’re going to make it available to anybody that needs it, free. Free. And I do suggest it. Now, I don’t know if it helped me or is it just a power?
You know, I made a statement. I made a statement and they took it very seriously. CNN, fake news, total fake news. And I got better very quickly. And I said, “Well, I should, because I’m a perfect physical specimen and I’m very young.” They went crazy. “He is not young, and he is not a perfect specimen.” They went crazy. They went crazy. They have no sense of humor whatsoever, do they, huh?
Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all emergency room visits, 97% are for something other than the virus. Think of that. Because we understand it now. We understand it. People are getting better. And, you know, you’re immune. That’s why I could jump right there… See those men? I’ll kiss the men. I’m not into that, but I will kiss every man there and kiss every woman there, if you don’t mind, also. They won’t catch anything. And you know what? I won’t catch, because they say…
And until I came along, they said, “If you have it, you get better. You’re immune for life.” But when I said, “I had it. I got better,” they said, “You’ve only got four months.” They’ve changed the whole medical standard. If it was anybody else, it was good for life, right? But with me, they said I’m now good for four months. Nah, I think a much longer period, but who the hell knows? Well, we’ll know soon enough.
We’re on track to deliver 100-million doses of a really great, safe vaccine. And we have some of the greatest companies in the world. They’re right at the doorstep. And if I weren’t president, if you had Sleepy Joe as your president, it would have taken you four years to have a vaccine. You would have never had a vaccine. What we did with the FDA, they said, “Sir we’ll need approximately two years.” I said, “How about one week?” We moved up the schedule, and yet very, very safe. We will vanquish the virus and emerge stronger than ever before. Our country will be stronger than ever before.
And what I did, only because of you and the double state with a double treatment, we spent a lot of money. We now have a new little thing. We have a big board that shows different things. And here’s some of the governors talking about the incredible job we did on COVID or the China virus. Take a look.
The fact is, every time I’ve called the President…
(silence).
… efforts and acts of mobilization. And the federal government stepped up.
Okay, I can hear it now. I can hear it.
We needed help and they were there.
He said everything that I could have hoped for. And we had a very long conversation, and every single thing he said, they followed through on.
We’ve got to have double the number of ventilators that we requested for that area of the state. And, in fact, we got them in, frankly, short order.
Have we lost anyone because we didn’t have a bed or we didn’t have a ventilator or we didn’t have healthcare staff? No.
The President was extending support for new swabs. So, conversation, commitment, a promise made, promise kept.
Now, to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plans. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along during a quickly escape-the-basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal. One of the things that is important is that… Keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on Barrett, I think, today…
That was terrifying.
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George… George, he… We’re going to find ourselves in a position where, if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
56% of Americans said that they were better off today than they were four years ago. It would have been under the Obama/Biden administration, so why should people who feel that they are better off today under the Trump administration vote for you?
Well, if they think that, they probably shouldn’t. If they think 54% of the American people are better off economically today than they were four years ago under our administration, well, their memory’s not very good, quite frankly.
A few moments later…
I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate. So vote! Vote! Visit Iowa.com/Ohio. We got in trouble when we were running against the senator who is a Mormon. The governor, okay? Well, their memory’s not very good, quite frankly.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
You know, we have a great, great country, but we have a country with tremendous potential, a country that can be greater than ever before. We can’t do this to ourselves. We can’t. And I personally don’t think he’s a nice person, but that’s okay. I don’t think he’s a nice guy. If he was a nice guy, I probably wouldn’t have put those clips up. But those clips are just a few of many, many, many clips. This happened over the last couple of days. You can’t do it.
For instance, if he were here with you today and said, “I want to thank the people of Ohio for being with us”… He’s done that seven different times. And once you do that, it’s over. You just walk off the stage. You can never make a good speech after that. Nobody’s going to go home and say, “That was a great speech, except for the fact that he called us the wrong state.” Joe Biden his surrendered his party to the rage-filled socialists, Marxists, and left-wing extremists, and that’s what you’re going to have, and you can’t let it happen.
The Democrats have spent the entire year inciting violence, hatred and hatred against our police, our police. Without our police, we have very little. Last night, the City of Philadelphia was ransacked by violent mobs and Biden-supported people. These were all Biden-supported people, and he wouldn’t even call them out this morning. They said, “Please call them out.” He doesn’t want to get involved because he doesn’t want to lose the radical left. Stores were looted, police cars were burned, and dozens of officers, great officers, were injured. Biden and Harris stand up and they stand with the riders and the vandals. I stand with the heroes of law enforcement.
It took generations to build the America we know and love. But if the radical left gains power, it will take them only a short period of time to destroy it. This Election Day, you must stop the anti-American, crazy radicals. They are crazy. That’s why I say this is the most important election in the history of our country. I never thought I’d say it, because we had a time four years ago, but they’ve gone absolutely insane.
Joe Biden is a corrupt politician, but big tech will not allow that to be said and the media will not say it. What he has done is horrible. The money from China, from Ukraine, from Russia. The wife of the Mayor of Moscow gave him three-and-a-half million to son. The son had no job, no nothing, got three-and-a-half million dollars. They put up on the board of Burisma $183,000 a month and, I understand, a $3-million upfront payment. I think they could have had him for less.
China gave him one and a half billion dollars to manage, even though he’s never managed money before. And I asked people on Wall Street, “Is that common?” They said, “It’s not common. Even for us, they don’t do that.” And that was after a meeting that lasted 10 minutes. Flew in with his father on Air Force Two. Flew back with 1.5 billion to manage from China.
And then the big one, and I guess this one maybe got caught. And I give a lot of credit for last night. Tucker Carlson did a great job last night, [inaudible 00:11: 33], because he was willing to call it out. By the way, follow up. Sean Hannity did a phenomenal job. You look at Sean Hannity. And Laura did a phenomenal… They’re getting that word out. The great Lou Dobbs, Jesse. You know, we have a lot of good support, but the problem is, we got to have more. Because look at all those people up there. Look at them. Every one of them… You know, they turn their camera off if I even talk about this. Think of it. They turn their camera off. If I mention Biden corruption, they turn their camera off. And yet they’ll do stories about me left and right, stuff that’s so untrue. Nah, it’s unbelievable. Pretty unbelievable.
It’s been a lot of fun being your president. I got impeached over a telephone call. “Congratulations on your victory,” President of Ukraine. But we had good stick with the Republicans. The Republicans stood by. In Congress, 197 to nothing. How about that? That’s pretty good. Last night in that hour-long interview, the Biden family business partner revealed the depth and extent of Biden corruption. And you know, if you walk out… you’re vice president and your son walks out with hundreds of millions of dollars, and he’s got no real capability, I would say that’s corrupt. I would say it’s corrupt. But Joe got a piece, right? For the big guy, right?
They said, “We’re going to keep 10% for the big guy.” They call him the big guy. I don’t think so. Joe is personally involved in establishing corrupt business dealings with China. At the same time, he was letting China plunder our jobs and destroy our businesses, our factories, our workers. Another report showed that the executive of a Chinese company that paid the Bidens at least $5 million was under surveillance by the U.S. Government as a likely Chinese spy. This is all down, documented.
They won’t repeat it. Could you imagine if I did this? No, seriously, could you imagine? I had a conversation, “Congratulations on your victory.” I’d never met the President of the Ukraine. I called him up. One of my great people, thank you very much, said, “Please call him and congratulate him.” I said, “Who is he?” “President of Ukraine.” And I got impeached. Think of it. And we went through hell for six months, our country.
And they spied on my campaign. Before I won, they spied. And after I won, they spied. And let’s see what happens to him. Let’s all see. And by the way, Obama and Biden knew all about it. Obama and Biden knew all about it. If Biden wins, China wins, because China will own the USA. He’s going to own it. They’re going to own it. President Xi, I know him well. He has not got the same problems that Biden has. He is a very sharp guy, very smart guy, very cunning guy. He’ll own the United States. I’ve charged billions and billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. I gave $28 billion, thank you very much, China, to our farmers because they were targeted.
When we win, you win. Arizona wins, Nevada wins, and America wins. We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some really great friends of mine, and they’re warriors and they’re fighting hard. Your governor, Doug Ducey, he got you opened up. He got you opened up. Where is Doug? Where is Doug? You look good, Doug. He got you opened up. You’re open. Thank you very much. And I hear we’re doing well, Doug? We’re doing good? I’m going to be so angry at you, Doug, if I don’t get the… I’ll call Doug, “Doug, how are we doing?” Well, he won by about 17 points. I’d say that’s not so bad. Right? Thank you, Doug. Great job. Great governor.
Somebody who’s done a fantastic job in the Senate, and she’s respected by everybody there, including me. She could fly those planes very easily that we just saw overhead, Senator Martha McSally. Great, great. So you know, Martha’s opponent wants to get rid of your Second Amendment. I don’t think so. You know, if you talk about nothing else, he wants to get… His whole thing is he wants to get rid of your Second Amendment. They want to take your guns away. You can’t let it happen. Will you please win? You got to win, okay? She’s tremendous. And you could fly those planes, right? She’s the only one in this whole group that can.
Congressman Paul Gosar. Congressman, great job. Great job by a warrior. He’s a warrior. Thank you. Great job. We’re doing okay, right? I hear we’re doing good. Thank you. Congressional candidate Daniel Rodimer. Daniel Rodimer, he’s a really smart guy, but don’t mess with him. He was a professional wrestler. He’s a big… You’re a big dude, but I hear you doing well. I hear you’re really doing well. That’s good. Well, we’re with your 100%. You know that, right? And Jim Marchant. Jim, congratulations. I hear you’re doing well, too, you and Daniel. He’s doing good, Dan? I think so, right? I hear good? Two winners. Arizona GOP Chair, who I’ve liked right from the beginning, Kelly Ward. Kelly. Now, if we lose, I won’t like her anymore and I’m going to say, “You’re fired Kelly. I’m sorry.” But I hear we’re doing well, Kelly, right? Really well. Yeah.
You have no idea. When you watch this in the fake news, you watch it and you say, “Oh, man.” But the real numbers are we’re substantially up. And also we’re up in Nevada. We’re worried about the governor, because he’s a political… he headed the political club. That’s some club in Nevada. They send out millions of ballots, you know. They found some in the garbage can with the name Trump on it, military ones. The name Trump was on it. I said, “What’s that happening?” But we got to be careful with the ballots. We do have law enforcement watching in your state. You know that. We have law enforcement, because it’s illegal to do bad things.
Nevada GOP Chair Michael McDonald. Michael. Michael, it’s good? Going good, right? That’s really good. And we have somebody else who’s been a friend of mine for a long time, respected by everybody, former Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt. Thanks, Adam. You are something. We’re doing okay, right? You’ve got the cheating? You’re watching the cheaters and all those people that send in the phony ballots, the triple… No, you had Virginia. They sent in 500,000 phony…
You had Virginia. They sent in 500,000 phony applications. They had another one, thousands of ballots were printed. They had one problem. They forgot to put the name President Donald Trump on the ballot. That causes a little problem. History says you don’t win too many of those. No, it’s very, very dishonest what’s happening, but hopefully the courts will protect us. They have to protect us. We had a big win actually yesterday in Wisconsin, you know that, where the United States Supreme court said, “I’m sorry, we have an election. You have to get it in. You have to get it in.” Some of these people, in Nevada, they want to have the election. They want to have the count weeks after November 3rd. So let’s all wait for the Governor to count them up good, and how many is he going to add during that two weeks, right?
A man who I’ve known for a long time, he’s an incredible guy, he’s a tough guy, he’s respected like you wouldn’t believe, made a lot of money with something that he truly loves, UFC President Dana White. He’s incredible. This guy, what a job he does. If there was ever a case for loving what you do, he sees these fighters, they want to rip you apart, and he goes up and he likes them a lot, right? They’re your friends. Dana’s fantastic, and he has done a fantastic job with some of the highest ratings on television. Dana White, UFC. I’m glad he likes me. And another friend of mine who was treated very, very poorly by big tech, but he’s smarter than all of them, and he figured this out a long time ago. And he’s got a very successful book that just came out. Charlie Kirk. Everybody knows Charlie. Great, Charlie. Thank you, Charlie.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. We built almost 400 miles. I’ll tell you what, the wall, they kept saying, the Democrats, “We don’t need a wall. We need drones.” Drones, all they want wanted, they talked about drones, so that we can watch thousands of people pour into our border. Actually, we’re all set. We have drones. We have such technology within this wall. We got exactly the wall that the Border Patrol wanted. I negotiated with them, but they didn’t want to talk about it. They wanted steel. They wanted concrete inside the steel. They wanted rebar inside the concrete. We got everything. And they wanted wires all over the place to hook up the technology. And the Democrats said, “A wall is obsolete.” I said, “The wall will never be obsolete.”
And you know the other thing that will never be obsolete, right? Walls and wheels, right? Everything else is obsolete about 15 minutes after it’s developed. Joe Biden has pledged to have open borders. He even said maybe we’ll take down the wall, one of the biggest projects in the history of our country. His plan would completely obliterate so many of the things that you want. He would do things that you would never have, that you would never accept. He will do things that are so far left that we’re not going to talk about them today. He will do things that will destroy our country. This would trigger a tsunami of illegal immigration. They want to have free healthcare for all. Free education for all. Everybody gets a lawyer. That’s just what we want, is a new lawyer. Everybody, everybody gets a lawyer.
No, we can’t have it. We can’t have what he has. He’s also pledged, and he pledges this strong, but the good news about him, he can pledge and about five hours later, he will have no idea what the hell he pledged. But Washington Democrats continue to attack our wonderful members of I.C.E. and the Border Patrol, more than half of whom are Hispanic Americans, and many of them are here today. And I’m very proud to receive the endorsement from some of the toughest people on earth. In fact, I think they could actually go to Dana and some of them could be nice, good fighters for Dana. National Ice Council, the union representing our incredible I.C.E. officers, and a man who has been a friend of mine for a long time, he’s the Head Council President just got the endorsement, Chris Crane. Where is Chris? Where is Chris? Where is he? You’re looking good dress, Chris.
Could some of your people maybe fight in the UFC? I don’t know. What do you think, Dana? Could his people from I.C.E.? They like to fight. I think they could. Dana wants to have them. Give them a try out. Thank you for all and thank you for your service, Chris. You do a fantastic job. And the Border Patrol, they do a fantastic job. These guys, Dana, they go into a nest and they start swinging. I don’t want that job. You don’t want it. Nobody up here wants it. They go up. And you know what? We have moved out, Chris, thousands and thousands of hardened criminals, horrible criminals, MS-13. We moved them the hell out of our country because of I.C.E., killers. As president, I have always said I will always stand, Chris, for the heroes of I.C.E. and for Border patrol. So say it to everybody, tell everybody hello. Give them a big hello from me. Incredible people.
We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. Military, including nearly $1 billion to build the world’s most advanced guided missile. You know where it’s being built? Right here in Arizona. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, and we then took out the world’s number one terrorist. Soleimani is dead. He’s dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. I recognize the capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And instead of having these horrible, ridiculous, endless wars in the Middle East, we’re making peace. You see what’s going on? Everyone’s getting together. There’s no blood in the sand. And I was nominated for three Nobel Peace Prizes. For all different things, believe in or not.
Kosovo, Serbia. We’re doing trade deal with Kosovo, Serbia. They were killing each other for many, many years, for decades and decades, they’re killing each other. Two countries, they’re killing each other. I said, “So we’re doing a deal with them, a deal with them. What are we doing? I’m not doing any deals unless they get together. They’ve got to get together. What do we want to have people kill each other for?” We made a deal with about 15 minutes, and they were in the Oval Office, hugging and kissing, and saying how much they love each other. And it’s going to last, believe it or not. I really believe that will last. But it was just so natural. Here we are, they want to make trade with us more than we want it with them. They want to make a trade with us. Everybody wants the United States, especially now. So I said, “You know what? We’ll make a deal, but you guys have to stop killing each other. Don’t be crazy. It’s nice. Get along.” And they’re getting along. They’re getting along.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities and a vote for the American dream. A vote for the American dream. And always remember, Abraham Lincoln, the great Abraham Lincoln, was a Republican. We have to bring that up, because most people don’t know that. And I can be more presidential than any President that’s ever, with the exception of perhaps Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat. You know, that. When he’s wearing the hat, he’s very tough to beat. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will add our reliance on China once and for all. We’ll make it right here in Arizona. We will expand opportunities zones, reduce your taxes, obliterate your regulations like we’ve done, nobody has ever done what we’ve done to regulations, and provide school choice to every parent in America. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.
We will defend religious liberty, free speech, the right to life, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might. Nobody has the equipment that we do. We are the envy of the world militarily. Nobody has done, and when I came the first week I was told by one of the world’s most overrated generals, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” Now we have so much ammunition, we don’t know what the hell to do with it. All made in the U.S.A. all made in the U.S.A. And we will ensure peace through strength. Right? Do you like that?
U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
Thank you. We will add surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices. Look, we took drug prices, last year was the first year in 52 years where prices went down. I’m very proud of that. But it was just a little bit. They didn’t go up, but they went down. First time. But now I’ve invoked Favored Nations. We pay more than any other nation in the world by far. The drug companies hate me. Big Pharma hates me. They are spending so much. And what I did is I made it Favored Nations. We’re the most expensive by far in the world. We now go down to the least expensive, tied, with the least expensive in the world. It’ll have a 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% reduction in drug prices. And I am not liked very much by those drug companies. So when you see those ads, one after another, they make Sleepy Joe look like peanuts compared to the drug companies. Nobody has more money. Nobody’s more powerful in terms of lobby.
But I had no choice. I had to do it. I have to do what’s right. I don’t care. I mean, I have to do what’s right. We will protect your social security and your Medicare, which Joe Biden, you saw that, Joe Biden tried to obliterate. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. Maybe we’ll make that a woman too. Maybe we should make that a woman too. What do you think, Michael? He said, “Make it Nancy Pelosi.” Who said that? That’s pretty good. I have to admit. Who? Stand up, please. Look at this guy. That’s pretty good. I didn’t say that. I’m just repeating it. They say, “He incites trouble. He loves trouble.” No, I don’t. Thank you very much. That was very good. Are you a comedian professionally? Great.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education, finally. It’s already happening to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. Right? And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, ” In God we trust.” They tried to take the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance. You saw that. They did it once, they said, “Oh, they made a typo.” Then they did it a second time, they said, “That’s not a typo.” And then they had the wrath of the American public against them and they put it back. But that’s where they’re coming from. For years, you had a President who apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Arizona and Nevada. And Nevada. I’ve got to have those people. They’re great. They’ve been great. Thank you.
We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you!
Thank you.
We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you!
You have to stop. I’ll start trying. They’ll say, “The President was crying today. The President broke down into tears as they screamed, ‘We love you!'” From Tombstone to Prescott, from Phoenix, it’s lucky I have a good memory, because you can’t see this sucker, it’s lucky I have a memory. Would that be bad? You are so lucky people that I took you on this journey with me. I say that to all my people. I say it to all my people, “The press, absolutely, they’re disgusting.” I said to all my people, “You’re so lucky, Charlie. You’re so lucky. I took you on this journey.” I say to all my people. Where’s Hope? Is she here? Hope? Where the hell is Hope? Does anyone know Hope? Look at Hope. They’re so lucky. Look at that group of people. There’s Jared, he’s making peace in the Middle East. That’s only cares about, is peace in the Middle East. Peace in the Middle East. He’s a brilliant guy.
I’ll tell you, you don’t get guys like that, but he’s done a great job. And you have, Jared. You have done an incredible job. And he’s done it the exact opposite of what they’ve been doing for 40 years. Great job. Mesa to Yuma and from Phoenix to right here in Bullhead. That sucker is moving so much I see Bullethead. I’m trying to go up. Is my head moving up and down like this? You did a great job of anchoring these things, fellas, a great job. You did a great job. All you have to do is put another two stripes on it, you’ll be fine. But we inherit the legacy of American patriots who poured out their hearts, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. This great state was settled by some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on Earth.
Arizona is where Wyatt Earp and Doc Holiday, how about that, became American legends. It’s where the great American West became the American dream, and Arizona is the state where generations of pioneers and prospectors, miners, ranchers, cowboys, and cattle hands, marshals and lawmen tamed the frontier, braved the blazing sun that I’m braving today. I’m just as brave as they are. I’m setting up here. I’ll be like a lobster tomorrow, And showed the entire world how the West was won. They helped make America into the greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are taking it back. Don’t ever let a bad thing happen on Tuesday. Don’t let it happen. We can’t Let it happen. Can’t let it happen. We’re so proud of our country, we can’t let it happen.
When that goes, when it goes, you look at Venezuela, this would be a massive version of Venezuela, and it can happen, because the ideology is the same. It can happen. Don’t let it happen. We’re returning power to you, the American people, and with your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Arizona, and Nevada, and Nevada, we’ll never forget Nevada, we’re going to have a tremendous win, are we going to win in Nevada, please? We’ve got a lot of people here, a lot of people, a lot of people from Nevada too. We have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Go out and vote. Go out and vote. Thank you, everybody.
Thank you. That’s a lot of people. That’s a lot of people. Look at that. That’s incredible. I hope the fake news media is turning their cameras way, way back there. That’s incredible. Hello, Omaha. And I have to also say, because a lot of people are here from Iowa. Hello, Iowa. Okay. Wait a minute. Who’s from Iowa? Raise, go. Who’s from Omaha?
You know what? We’re going to be in Iowa soon. We’ll do that one separately. That’s a big difference. Seven days from now, we’re going to win Nebraska, and we’re going to win four more years in the great White House. That’s beautiful, beautiful White House. This is… Look at this. I can’t believe this. 29,000 people can you believe it? 29,000.
You know, we have to win both Nebraska’s, you know that right? You have two, you’re cut. We’re going to win both. This election is a choice between the Trump super recovery, which is what we’re having, or a Biden depression, sad to say. And some bad news just came out on Biden. But I won’t tell you about that. You’ll find that out tomorrow.
Look at you. Man, that’s something. Biden has pledged the biggest tax hike in the history of our country. First man, that I’ve ever seen campaign on the fact, “I’m going to raise your taxes.” What’s going on? I gave working families, record-setting tax cuts, and in my second term, I will cut middle class taxes, very substantially more. By the way, a lot of things are going on. You’re seeing those poll numbers, they’re going through the roof. I hate to tell.
Where is the fake news? It’s over there? Oh, that’s a lot of cameras. No, it’s going up. They’re very concerned. They’re very, very concerned. All over. Florida is looking great. Now, Nebraska we know is looking great. Okay? I mean, in theory, I didn’t really have to be here, but it’s nice to be with your friends. With your vote we will continue to bring back our jobs, support our police, defend our second amendment, which is under siege, secure our borders, maintain American energy independence, expand school choice, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the phrase, that beautiful phrase, beautiful phrase, made in the USA, right?
I will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends the pandemic. We’re making that final turn. They don’t want to hear it. We’re making that turn. You know that right? We’re going to have the vaccine anyway with, or without it, we’re making the turn. Normal life will fully resume. That’s all we want. We want normal life, normal life, go back seven months, we’ll take normal life, greatest economy we ever had. We want normal life and next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. That’s where we’re heading. Super V. Joe Biden doesn’t even respect you enough to campaign. He never came here, right? Did he come here? Oh. All right, so that’s the end of that. I’ll see you guys, I don’t have… Moments ago, we learned about the other reason Joe Biden has been hiding in his basement, in a national television interview… Do you want me to tell you the rest? The Biden family’s business partner revealed shocking, disturbing, and explosive information about Joe Biden’s corrupt and illicit foreign business dealings while he was Vice President.
The business partner made clear that Biden’s denial of involvement in his son’s corrupt business dealings was a blatant lie with proof. He stated with firsthand knowledge, that Vice President Biden was directly and personally involved in establishing corrupt business dealings with China and getting money for it. This all happened at the same time as Biden was letting China steal American jobs and plunder American wealth. You saw that for eight years. If Biden wins, China wins, and China will own the USA. If Biden wins he will do bad things. By the way, he’s not a good guy. Just so you understand.
Is there any place you would rather be than a Trump rally on about a 10 degree evening? 10 degrees. Yeah, it’s cold out here, but that’s okay. You know, we just left Wisconsin? It was cold. And we left Michigan, it was cold and raining. And I said, “I won’t put on a hat because I’m going to show you how tough we are.” That was a tough one. It was pouring. It was pouring and it was freezing. And it’s the coldest right here. Right? It’s a little later. It’s an honor to be with you I have to say. When we win, you win, Nebraska wins, and all of America wins, and that’s the way we want it.
Joe Biden has spent the last 47 years, think of it, 47. 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign, ridiculous wars. Countries you’ve never even heard of. In 2016, Nebraska voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider as president who finally put America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician it’s because I’m not a politician.
If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fought harder for you than any president who’s ever held this wonderful, beautiful office. That I can tell you. This election is a matter of economic survival for Omaha and for communities all across our country. Joe Biden’s agenda, and I’m not sure it’s only Biden’s agenda, let’s face it. It’s not his agenda. It sounds nice, Biden’s agenda. The guys shot. He’s shot. He’s so gonzo. You saw him yesterday, they took him away.
I was in Pennsylvania with these tremendous, crowds like this, tremendous rallies; and he had the lid on, right? You know, the lid, like from a garbage can, they call it the lid. They saw what was happening, because I went to three of them. I did three of them yesterday in Pennsylvania. So he went from Delaware to the closest point where Pennsylvania hits Delaware, which was about five minutes away from his basement. He made a speech, just before that he called me George. He said, “George,” I think he was talking about Georgia. His wife was sitting next to him and you could see she was not happy.
But it’s hard to correct him, the camera’s on, but he called me George. Then he did the little speech and it wasn’t good. They sort of just moved him out. They took him away, his own people, brush him off. They took them off stage. This is not what you can have. We have the greatest country in the world. We have more potential than any country in the world. We can’t play games. We can’t play games.
So the Democrats, let’s say the Democrats, the radical left Democrats, they have an extreme agenda. He’s just a vehicle. He’ll be there for about four weeks or so. Then you’ll have Kamala, Kamala. That will not be the first woman president. You’re going to have a woman president, maybe soon, maybe soon, but you’re not going to have a Kamala. Can’t be Kamala. She’s further left by far then crazy Bernie. Bernie is like a conservative compared to her, but Biden’s extreme agenda includes a radical vision to destroy suburbs across our nation. How are your suburbs doing? Don’t ask. Are they good? They won’t be good for longer, if they get it. And to completely dismantle law enforcement and cripple police departments nationwide, you know what’s going on. You see it better than anybody. You don’t have to take my word for it. Biden’s plan to destroy suburbs and police just take a look, roll the tape. We do this view on this freezing cold night.
The suburbs today are not the suburbs of half a century ago. The suburbs are far more diverse than the cities, but they’re being targeted. Being targeted for what? Federalized, centralized government control by the left.
Democrats want to abolish the suburbs. They are too clean and nice, and therefore by definition, they are racist. The Biden campaign has highly specific plans on how to do this. It’s called Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing. It’s a HUD regulation. It was written during the Obama administration, Biden’s advisors plan to enforce it. Towns will be ordered to abolish zoning for single family housing, because single family homes, needless to say are racist. Low-income federally subsidized apartments will go up in the suburbs.
We’ll also build 1.5 million new energy efficient homes and public housing units.
Thankfully Trump repealed this rule back in July, but now the left is backing an even more radical plan. It was a bill put forward by Senator Cory Booker to push low-income housing developments into the suburbs. This would be a federal takeover of local zoning laws in essence.
… federal takeover of local zoning laws in essence and Biden, he fully supports it.
The prior administration piled up more than 600 major new regulations, a cruel and punishing regulatory burden that cost the average American an additional $2,300 per year. Think of that. The average American, $2,300, regulation, hitting low-income Americans by far the hardest. Our historic regulatory relief is providing the average American household an extra $3,100 every single year.
I’ve had the luxury of enjoying the benefit of the tax cuts. The tax cuts allowed me to grow my businesses.
I believe that if you take into account the Trump tax cut, you take into account the drop in unemployment and particularly unemployment for African-Americans, the lowest it’s ever been in history.
How’s the economy right now?
We’re loving it.
Kennedy credits the Trump tax cuts and deregulation for her company’s growth.
It’s the first time in 10 years that it’s booming again.
The tax cuts that were imposed did wonders for the middle class.
I will cut taxes even further for hard working moms and dads. I will not raise taxes. I will cut them.
First thing I do is going to repeal this Trump tax cut.
Boo!
Do you believe there is systemic racism in law enforcement?
Absolutely.
I’ve been a police officer for nearly 32 years. Joe Biden does not have the backs of police officers.
Joe Biden staffers, they gave money to a fund to help bail out accused criminals.
Joe Biden’s silence is encouraging the rioters.
Kamala Harris is working to help the instigators, the criminals get out of jail.
If Joe Biden’s elected, it just going to continue.
Everyone beware because they’re not going to stop.
Only person who defended the police is Trump.
I have had overwhelming support from police my whole career up until this year.
We can reduce the responsibilities assigned to the police and redirect some of the funding for police. Can we agree that we can redirect some of the funding?
Yes, absolutely.
In Joe Biden’s America, we’ll all be in danger. If you support the police and you want to be safe in your home and you want your children safe, support Donald Trump.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, that’s pretty effective. You know what that costs to bring to you tonight?
Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years!
Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you very much.
Four more years!
Thank you very much. Pretty effective, right? You see it. It saves me a lot of words. I can sit here, watch. I say, “See?” No, he’s not the right guy. He’s not the right guy. He’s not right for this country. He’s not the guy for this country. This election is a choice between the American dream, which is what we want and a socialist nightmare, which is where you would head if you ever did that, which I don’t believe you’ll do. It’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock it all down. No. We closed it up. We understand the disease. It’s a terrible thing. Should never have been allowed to come here from China. Should never have been allowed.
Joe Biden will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, shutter your schools, right? Shutter your schools, destroy your small businesses and shut down our country. We’re not doing that. Look, we are setting records, 11.4 million people. It’s all opened up. We understand it. And we are doing a job. We are literally setting records on employment. Look at housing, look at automobile production. Look at how you’re doing in Nebraska. Look at how you’re doing in Nebraska.
Biden even wants to lock down young and healthy Americans yet for those under the age of 50, I hate to say this, under the age of 50. How many are under the age of 50? Pretty young. Well, I have good news for you. 99.99, okay, you know what that means? That means you’re in good shape. That’s what that means. But you notice the fake news now, right? All they talk about is COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID and we’ve made such progress. It’s incredible. Excuse me. I’m here. Right? I’m here. Right?
I mean, I wasn’t exactly feeling great. It’s been a long time. I wasn’t exactly feeling great. Man, I met with great doctors. One thing when you’re president, you got plenty of doctors. We have one of them here tonight, I think. Right? We have our great White House doctors traveling. Sean, he’s become very famous. Where is Sean? He’s become … Oh, is that Sean. Look at Sean. Look at him. Wow. You know, he’s got a big ego. He loves it when I mention his name. No, he’s a great doctor. They were great doctors from Johns Hopkins and from Walter Reed and everything else. And what we know today is like so different than what we knew six months ago. Incredible.
The progress they’ve made and with the vaccines, which are coming immediately, even without, we’re turning that corner. You know, at some point we’re turning that corner and it’s been pretty amazing. Florida had a rough time. Boom, it stepped back. It’s all the way down. Texas, all the way down. Arizona, great governors, all the way down. Biden’s cruel and senseless lock downs would cause countless deaths from suicide, drug overdose and delayed medical care, alcohol. I’ve been so many, so many different problems. Remember, I’d say the cure can not be worse than the problem itself. That’s what you have.
When I banned traveled from China, remember he said now. He says, “Oh, we should have done it sooner.” Except when I banned it. For two and a half months, he said he shouldn’t do that. He’s xenophobic. Right? And now he says, “Oh, I should’ve done it earlier.” And he had a thing called the swine flu. It was a disaster, much less lethal. It was a disaster. He was a disaster. He’s still a disaster actually.
If we listen to Joe, countless more people would have died. They were anticipating it could be 2.2 million. You don’t hear that, 2.2 million. And you know the number. It’s still one is too many as far as I’m concerned. One is too many. It shouldn’t have happened. One is too many, but it could have been 2.2. It could have been more than that. Biden was willing to sacrifice your lives on the altar of open borders. He wants open borders. Without borders, you don’t have a country. By the way, the wall is now over 400 miles long and we’re building 10 miles a week and it’s very soon going to be finished. So we have the strongest southern border we’ve ever had. And we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through Marin. Marin.
Biden has no plan, no idea, no clue. He has no clue. That’s for sure. And he just wants to lock up and throw away the keys, letting rioters and looters run wild. And you know, it’s interesting. They call them peaceful protestors. They burn down your cities. They do things that nobody’s seen before all in radical left Democrat run cities and states, but cities, all of them, all of them. And every time we go in, we were going to go into Seattle. We let them know we’re coming in. The night before we came in, they gave up, they left. They took over a piece of Seattle. That wasn’t going to last.
Minneapolis, the same thing. We went into Minneapolis. We went in, you know, we have to be asked in theory, by the state. We went into Minneapolis and it all ended. It took about, what do you think? 25 minutes or so. It was just boom, right down the street. Now, the Republican run cities are doing very well. The Republican run cities. And I hope you agree because I know he’s here, but you have a very good Republican governor. You do know that, yeah? Whoa. Listen to that. Good. Good. Hi, Pete. Good. You know, I’m glad they did that. You know, I want to do the … Otherwise, I just wouldn’t introduce you later. You know, keep it quiet. They like you, Pete.
The Biden plan will crush you and crush your family. My plan will crush the virus and you will see economic benefits like we’ve never seen in our country before. That’s what we’re having. When the China plague arrived, we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We airlifted medical supplies, pioneered groundbreaking therapies, reduced the fatality rate 85%. Think of that and saved over two million lives. Our excess mortality rate has been 42% less than Europe. You hear about Europe, 42% less, much better than Europe.
I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment that I received. I did. I had this thing called Regeneron. I don’t know. I’d like to say it had nothing to do. I’d like to say my immune system is just like Baron Trump. You know, first lady had it. I had it. Baron had it. They said, “Sir, Baron has tested positive.” Like 12 minutes later, I said, “How’s Baron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay now, sir. He threw it away.” He just took that, threw it away, you know? They’re young and they have strong immune systems, but I’d like to say the treatment didn’t do anything for me. Doctor, do you hear that? I just threw it away like Baron.
But you know what? I wasn’t going to take my chance. I said, “You have something, give it to me.” And it was effective because I woke up the next morning after being with these doctors, they wanted to touch every single part of your body and I didn’t like it. Twelve of them. Each one was a specialist, right? Every single one, but they were great. No, they were great. But I woke up the next morning and I tell you, I felt like, “Get me out of here. It was amazing.” So, I really think this thing was great. It’s great. I think it was great.
And you know, I don’t have the luxury of staying in a basement. I’m president of the United States. I don’t. I can’t be staying. I really can’t. You can’t stay. I had a lot of meetings. I meet a lot of people. As president, I have that obligation. So we have basements in the White House I could stay. We have beautiful bedrooms upstairs at the White House I could stay for a year and a half. I can’t do that. I have to be working for you. And if something happens, it happens. And I get, you know, they came in, they said, “Sir, you’ve tested positive.” I said, “Tested positive for what?” Then you go into one of the 27 different names, corona, this, this, this, China virus, the China plague, the China plague. That’s what I tested positive for. But it was amazing. And it was actually an experience.
And until I came along, you were supposed to have lifetime immunity. Right? I said, “Well, I’m recovered. I feel great. And I’m immune.” I could jump right into this road. I could kiss every man and woman, every man and woman. But because it was me, the press said, “No, it’s not for a lifetime. It’s only for four months. Immunity is only now for four months.” They brought it down, right? It was always going to be for a lifetime, now it’s four months. So what are you going to do? What are you going to do? It’s one of those things, but I guarantee you this. On November 4th, you won’t be hearing as much about this. It’s going to be … right now, it’s, COVID, COVID, COVID no matter what happens. COVID, COVID.
And on November 4th, you’ll probably try and find some information about it. No, we’re rounding the turn. We’re rounding that beautiful turn and it’s going to be very good. The vaccines all going to make it go away a lot faster and they’re going to be great. The greatest companies, the greatest companies of their kind in the world, they’re doing it. Really good. Johnson &amp; Johnson, Moderna, they really are great. Pfizer.
Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all current emergency room visits are for something other than the virus. Think of that, 97%. We’re in great shape. And in the one areas, the Midwest, a little areas in the Midwest, certain areas that are heated up right now, they’ll go down. They’ll go down very quickly. There’ll be down within two weeks they’re figuring. They’ll go down just like they did in Florida, Texas, Arizona and so many others. We’re on track to deliver 100 million doses of a safe vaccine and a great vaccine. And that’s all set. We’re all set logistically. Our military is going to deliver it. It’ll be done very quickly. We will vanquish the vaccine and we will get rid of this whole thing. We will get rid of this virus. It’ll be very, you watch, it’s going to happen very quickly and we’re going to have our country back. And the whole world-
… and we’re going to have our country back and the whole world is going to be coming back. This was a terrible, terrible thing that happened, terrible thing that happened. Terrible thing that happened. Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain, in exchange for his party’s nomination he has handed control of his party over to the rage filled socialist, Marxists, and left wing extremists. And could we put another name in there? Starts with a C, communist, yes. No, we got a couple of them too, unfortunately. If Biden wins, the flag burning extremists on the streets will be running your government, it’s not going to happen.
By the way, just so you know, we are so far… You listen to the fakers back there, look at them. You listen to the fake news, we are so far ahead, this is going to be bigger than four years ago. By the way, get out and vote, that the only thing I’m standing here freezing, I ask you one little favor, get that hell out and vote. The great red wave. At least you’re down there with each other, I’m all up here and that wind is blowing.
This election day you must stop the anti-American radicals and, really, I mean, that’s what they are, they’re radicals. We can solve these problems so quickly if the governments would just say, “Would you please come in federal government?” We’d stop it in a matter of minutes, it goes so fast. The radical’s delivering Joe Biden, you have to do this, you have to deliver them a message, the far left, a thundering defeat at the ballot box on November 3rd. It’s got to be a big one, we’ve got to win big. And we’re going to win big, I watching them and they’re getting… Like three weeks ago, I don’t know, they were doing these fake polls and they felt very good. And then a week ago they were feeling okay, they’re not feeling so good right now. They’re saying, “These are not good numbers.”
Was that one of the greatest evenings ever four years ago? And you know, the difference is, and I say this is easier, there’s more… Look at this crowd, I mean, we had big crowds, we didn’t have crowds like this. Look at this crowd 29,000. You have 29, 000 people in Omaha, that’s pretty good. And you’re all on television. Say, “Hello.” You’re on national television. See all the red lights? That means the cameras are going, that means those cameras are going. 29,000 people, they say, 29,000. Yeah.
You know who spoke today? President Barack Hussein Obama. He had 12 people in seven cars, did you hear the… No, he draws flies. I’ve never seen… He draws… He had no people, I thought he’d have some people. And he bought Bon Jovi along, you know what happened to Bon Jovi? They increased the crowd by 22 people, can you believe that? And then Joe spoke and that crowd left and we have 29,000 people here and we had a tremendous crowd in Michigan, had a tremendous crowd in Wisconsin. And they’re trying to figure out like, if Trump is getting these crowds and if Biden’s getting like 12 people, you know the circles, he fills in the circles, they got like five of them. And a lot of times they put reporters in there cause they have no people.
But today he tried to blame that on COVID also. He said, “No, no, we don’t seek large crowds,” because of the virus, right? They don’t want the large crowd. That’s not the reason, okay? That’s not the reason. It’s a hell of an excuse, but it’s not the reason.
We’re thrilled to be joined by the man we were just talking about, he’s a friend of mine, he loves his state, he loves his country and he’s a great governor, Pete Ricketts. Pete, Great job. Great job. What a good guy. What a good man. How’s your state doing, Pete?
It’s wonderful, [inaudible 00:04:24].
All right, good. How are we doing? By the way, we’re going to be okay here, right?
[inaudible 00:32:29].
He says, “Good.” Good, thank you very much, Pete. And his brother Todd, another one really good. Now there’s only two people that are better, Joe and Marlene. Now Todd is great, but they will both admit Joe and Marlene are better, right? And you’re here. Hi Joe. I like the hat, Hi Joe. You got to be proud of your boys, they’re doing a great job, thank you very much. Thank you very much, great family.
Here as well are Senators, Deb Fischer, who’s fantastic. She is my favorite Senator from the State of Nebraska, by far, by far. She’s fantastic. She is. I’ll tell you what she calls me, it doesn’t stop. Between her and Joni Ernst from Iowa, who I think is here, where’s Joni? Joni. Joni. They call, “Sir, we need help with ethanol. Sir, we need help with corn. We need…” It’s always… But you know what? That’s what a great Senator, that’s what a great Representative is supposed to do, right? Joni, thank you very much. And I heard you doing very well, I just saw some very nice numbers. And Deb, you don’t have to worry about numbers, right? You don’t have to worry about numbers. I’m with you all the time. Thank you both. And yeah, it looks very good in Iowa. Thank you very much. Good.
Add Representatives, Jeff Fortenberry, a warrior, where’s Jeff? Thank you, Jeff. Great guy. Don Bacon. Whoa, what’s this? Wow. Wow. Well, I like him too, but I don’t know if I like him that much. That’s very good. I’ll tell you, you better get me on Omaha, you understand that? Now I know, I wouldn’t have asked him, but now I’m going to say, “Make sure we win this side too,” right? Good. How are we doing Don, I hear good. Good, huh?
We’re doing [inaudible 00:34:42].
Good. I’m very impressed, that’s about as good as I’ve heard in a long time. And Adrian Smith. Adrian, great job. Great job. Great to have you here. It’s a great group of people and these are warriors, they fought with me a lot. They fought with me, we keep winning over there, but it’s not easy, right? But it gets easier and easier all the time. Thank you very much, I appreciate it.
For decades, our politicians spent trillions and trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign Wars, and defending foreign borders, but now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA. Our troops are coming home. Thank you. No, our troops are coming back home, that’s enough. 19 years in Afghanistan and we have it worked in they’re coming home and it’s a great thing. And they’re home from Syria, they’re home, I left some because we kept the oil, if you don’t mind, there was some oil and we captured it, we kept it. And coming home from Iraq. It’s enough, it’s enough, we want to have them all home. We have a lot of other countries too, we were in many, many, many countries, most of which you’ve never even heard of, right? You never even heard of, it’s ridiculous. And, by the way, making our military stronger by far than ever before. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and proudly signed the brand new USMCA, which is turning out to be phenomenal, it’s a great deal. It’s a great deal, just kicked in now. And you know what? Companies will not be leaving Nebraska and Iowa and all of our places, there is a very big disincentive for them to do that.
When China targeted our farmers, I delivered $28 billion to our incredible farmers here in Nebraska, and Iowa, and all across the country. Don’t forget to tell the people of Iowa that, please. $28 billion, I said to the Secretary, Sonny Perdue, of Agriculture. Sonny is great. I said, “Sonny, how much were the farmers targeted?” And he said, “$12 billion, sir and $16 billion,” two years, 12 and 16. I said, “28, good.” So I tariffed $28 billion, took it from China and distributed it to our farmers, nobody else is going to do that.
In fact, some people say our farmers do better now than they did when they actually had to farm. But we did, we had the biggest order of corn two weeks ago in the history of our country, the biggest order of soybeans, and the biggest beef order, right? Two weeks ago. Joe Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member of the US Senate, you know who that is, sponsors the insane Green New Deal, $100 trillion, you too can have no windows in your buildings. Which would wipe out the ethanol industry, Joni, it would totally wipe out that industry. We worked hard on that industry and then now in good shape. Devastating Nebraska and devastating Iowa, as president I will always defend ethanol, okay? All right? Does Nebraska like ethanol too, by the way? Okay good, I need that little assurance. I need that little bit of assurance.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in us history, our Southern border, largely because of the wall. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would completely eliminate US borders. Open borders they want to have, let’s have open borders so everyone can just pour it like they used to. He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. So we invested $2.5 trillion, a lot of it right here from this state and from Joni, from Iowa, $2.5 trillion, new equipment, our military is in the best shape it’s ever been in, we have the greatest equipment anywhere in the world. We are the envy of every other country: Russia, China, North Korea. We have the best missiles, and rockets, and tanks, and planes, and fighter jets, F-35s, submarines, and our nuclear weapons are now renovated and/or new and fixed, and we only hope to God we never have to use them. Hope to God.
Our military was very much in bad shape. It was depleted. It was depleted. It was exhausted, it was ridiculous. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, they were looking for him for a long time. And we took out the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous and ridiculous Iran Nuclear Deal, $150 billion we paid, for nothing. And $1.8 billion in cash, I’m more impressed with that. What do you think, pop? I think I’m more impressed, $ 150 billion or $1.8 billion in cash, I think I’m more impressed with the cash. You ever hear everything like that? That’s what we gave to Iran for nothing, we got nothing.
I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, think on that. They kept that they worked on that for 52 years, I got it done in two hours. And instead of never ending Wars in the Middle East, you see what’s happening, already three countries, we have five lined up and we’re going to have another, it’s going to be… it’s an easy one, it’s a lot easier than you would think. They worked on this for 35 years, they had the wrong people, they had the wrong concepts.
But I got nominated for three Nobel Peace Prizes, can you believe it? Can you believe it? And for all different regions, like Kosovo and Serbia were doing deals, trade deals, just normally we’re doing trade deals, I said, “Wait a minute, aren’t they always fighting each other?”
“Yeah.”
“Aren’t they always killing each other?”
“Yeah, for many decades, sir, how did you know?” I said, “I know, they’re killing… They fight each other all the time. Tell him we’re not going to do any business with them. They want our business, right? And we’re not going to do any business unless we make a deal where they stop killing each other.” And you know what? It took about 20 minutes. They’ve been fighting for 40 years, I think they’d been fighting for 400 years, you want to know the truth, but-
I think they’ve been fighting for 400 years, you want to know the truth, but they’ve been fighting for a long time. They want to make a deal. All of a sudden, two months ago, they’re in the Oval Office hugging and kissing and [inaudible 00:00:14]. That was easy, Joe. Right? That was easy. It just makes sense. I just said, “Hey, why don’t we get them together? I mean, we’re going to do these two deals. Tell them to stop fighting, and we save a lot of lives. That’s a good thing.” But we’re forging peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand, and we’re not spending money. You’re doing it either… Something very nice is we’re pulling out.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. It’s a vote for acknowledgement that Abraham Lincoln was a Republican. Is that nice? People don’t know that. A lot of people don’t know that. So in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China. And that’s already begun, largely already begun. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend religious liberty, free speech, the right to life, and the right to keep and bear arms.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And that’s what we have now, with what we have. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. That’s bigger than healthcare. You watch. Already signed, kicks in on January 1st. Lower drug prices even more. We signed favored nations. That means we’re going to get the lowest price anywhere in the world. Right now, we’re by far the highest. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And NASA is the number one space center anywhere in the world again. It was a mess three and a half years ago. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students, and restore patriotic education to our school.
We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God We Trust.” For years, you had a president who apologized to America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and standing up for the great people of Nebraska and Iowa. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get your coworkers. Get your boss and say, “Boss, get out of here, boss. Get out and vote. You got to vote.” The red wave is coming. The great red wave. Now we’re doing very well. Those early ballots…
You know the whole ballot hoax. You see what’s going on. There’s so many bad things happening, but we’re doing very well. You know, we’re supposed to be a little behind, and they were a little bit above. But that wave comes, and now we go to the front of everything. I think we’re going to win everything. We didn’t come this far and fight this hard to surrender our country back to the corrupt Washington swamp. So on November 3rd, we must finish the job that we started. We have done a job like nobody. There has been no administration, nobody, and it’s us all together. There has been… No administration has done in the first three and a half years what this administration has done. Not even close. Not even close. Not even close.
From Norfolk to Hastings, from Grand Island to Lincoln, and from Scottsbluff to right here in Omaha, we inherit the legacy of Nebraska patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We’re going to keep on fighting, and we’re going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Nebraska and Iowa, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you Nebraska. Thank you Iowa. Thank you both. Thank you. Get out and vote.
Wow. That’s so great. I want to start off by saying a very big hello, Wisconsin. It’s great to be with you. And I’ll also say this. I have never spoken where I had so many people behind me. I have a whole stadium behind. I want to just thank everybody. This is a great turnout. They wanted a bigger space. They got a bigger space. Because seven days from now, we are going to win this state and we are going to four more incredible years in the White House. Thank you. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery or a Biden depression. That’s what you’re going to have with the raise of taxes, the biggest tax increase in our history. It’s ridiculous. It’s a choice between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown. Let’s lock it all down. And by the way, speaking of lockdowns, let’s get your governor to open it up. Let’s get him to open it up.
It’s a choice between our plan to cut your taxes or even, and I have to tell you, we’ve given you the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. You know that, biggest regulation cut in the history of our country. And sleepy Joe Biden, his plan is to raise your taxes at a level that our country has never raised taxes before. Somehow that doesn’t work too well. Do you agree? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I’ve never heard of it before, but that’s okay. You can’t hear of everything, right? All my life I’ve watched people want to cut taxes. Here’s a guy, he’s running on a basis of let’s raise everybody’s taxes.
Next week, Wisconsin is going to answer the call of history once again. We had a great victory here. Didn’t we have a great? Remember that four years ago? They said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin.” It’s been a long time since a Republican did that, but we’re actually much higher now than we were then. We have a campaign that’s actually more enthusiastic. And that was, I would say, that had to be number one in history four years ago. But you know what? This is going to be the most important election in the history of our country. Because you see what’s happening, the radical lefts, and you’re going to defeat Biden and dark money donors and corrupt special interests. One of the most important issues in this election is law and order. We say it. Law and order.
Joe Biden is party incite violence and hatred against our police officers. And we’re not doing that. No, we’re not doing that. Remember the debate, the first debate. Which one did you like better, the first one or the second one? He says, “Both.” That’s a fan. He said, “My man is there.” Yeah. Did anybody see the last one? Anybody watching? Seems to have had a very big impact. We learned a lot about him. Number one, he’s against oil, gas, probably likes wind, but wind is very intermittent. Let’s watch the President tonight on television. I’m sorry, darling, the wind’s not blowing.
Last night, Philadelphia was torn up by Biden supporting radicals. 30 police officers, Philadelphia police officers, great people, they were injured, some badly. Biden stands with the riders and I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. And you know what? They can do their job very easily. Just let them do their job. The Biden Harris plan would end cash bail. You know, they want to have cash bail so everyone just walks around. No matter what they do, ends cash bail, free 400,000 dangerous criminals. It would slash police budgets all over the country. It would tie the hands of every police officer in the country and they would appoint anti-police prosecutors in every community in America. I don’t think that’s for Wisconsin. We know each other well.
Biden is soft and weak and too scared to be President. He doesn’t want to be President. Let’s face it. You know, you got his bad body language there. This man knows body language better than any man I know. That’s a lot of bad body language from Joe. You know, he got out yesterday. You saw that? Because we’re making speeches all over Pennsylvania. He got out and he got out of Delaware and he said, “What’s the closest point to Pennsylvania?” And it was just a few minutes from his basement. And he went and made a speech. And that was a mistake because they had to take him off the stage because he didn’t know where the hell he was. Right? That didn’t work out too well. No, because he had a lid, you know, like a garbage can. You put it in the can. It’s a lid. It’s called a lid. But he doesn’t want to be President. One thing about this job, you got to want it. You got to want it. This is tough. This is tough. And doing this, I don’t usually say it, but I say it, doing this…
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
And unlike Biden, who’s made a fortune in politics, what a fortune. The press is not allowed to write about that though. But Biden made a fortune. You know what? This is costing me billions of dollars. And you know, I could not be happier because we have done things that nobody else could have done in the first three and a half years. There’s been no administration that’s done what we’ve done in the first three and a half years with our military, with our vets, with regulations, with cutting taxes. Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member in the U.S. Senate. She makes Bernie Sanders look like he’s a conservative. Even urge their supporters to donate to a fund to bail out writers in Minneapolis, where they had such problems until the National Guard went in and they stopped it. Would you say that was about, what, 22 minutes? It was all over.
Including an attempted cop killer, they wanted to bail him out. The policies will set cop killers free. We believe if you murder a police officer, you should get the death penalty. And I know you’re a state that believes. You murder a police officer. You saw a month ago. The two young officers sitting in a car and the guy comes up. No, you do that stuff and you can’t get away with it. When the violent mob came to Kenosha, you know, Kenosha? Everybody know Kenosha? Biden opposed sending in the National Guard. We sent in the National Guard and we saved Kenosha. We save Kenosha. Kenosha wouldn’t be standing. And I got a lot of credit. Thank you to the sheriff and so many others for their support. They’ve actually came out and supported me. Thank you very much. Where’s the sheriff? Is he around here some place? What a hell of a sheriff. Thank you very much. That’s great. I appreciate it, too. That’s the first time you ever did it. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Fantastic. Good man. Good man.
It took generations to build the America that we know and love. But if the radical left gain power, it would take them only a matter of months to burn it down, tear it down or destroy it. I’m the only one standing between you and the left wing mob. I hate to tell you. There aren’t too many of us, but we’re standing, and your second amendment and many other things, right?
Biden has not only declared war on police. I mean, you know, it really is. My father taught me a long time. Don’t use the word cops because the word cops, that’s a little slang. Always call them police. So I never used it. You know, I see cops, but sometimes it’s not bad. Sheriff, let me ask you. Cops or police or doesn’t it matter? If it’s done with the heart, who cares, right? Right? If it’s done with a heart. So like I said, he declared war on the cops, and it’s not working out too well.
You’re going to see something. You’re going to see a giant red wave on Tuesday. You’re going to see a red wave like they’ve never seen before. And they saw a very big one. I’ll tell you what, they got a glimpse on four years ago. And remember they said, “Where did these people come from? Where did they come from?” They’re great Americans. They don’t want anything. They just want that level playing field. And they came out and they voted. And this is going to be bigger. This is going to be bigger. And they know it. They know it. They know it. They don’t like to report it. They see what’s happening. They see what’s happening, Mike. Don’t they? They get it. It’s going to be very big and it’s going to be beautiful.
And it doesn’t have to start on Tuesday. It could start earlier, early voting. You want to be there. You know these ballots. You see? Was I right about the ballots? It’s messed up like you wouldn’t believe. Now they say, “We’d like to get the ballots and maybe get them within a few days of the election. And we’ll take 10 days to count them up.” Oh good. Let’s let the whole world wait while you count your ballots. And you know what happens while they’re counting them? They’re dumping more ballots in there. Okay? Where did they come from? No. We had a great ruling right here. We had a great ruling. Right? Got that yesterday. Supreme Court said, “Nope, that’s your date. That’s the [inaudible 00:00:12:14]. November 3rd. That’s your date.” Right?
But sleepy Joe declared war on American workers and Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs. You got hit hard. Opening your borders, you don’t have borders, you don’t have a country. And sacrificing American blood and treasure and endless foreign, ridiculous Wars. Countries, most of you, including even most of the people, they never even heard of these countries. We’re bringing them all back home. You know that, right? They’re all coming back home. Afghanistan, Iraq, keeping some in Syria. If you don’t mind, we’re keeping the oil. You know, they should have done that with Iraq. Remember I said, “Don’t go into Iraq. But if you go in, at least keep the oil.” We didn’t keep the oil.
Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, China’s entry into the world trade organization. He repeatedly tried to slash Medicare and social security. He’s a shill in a sense for foreign countries. You got to take a look at this guy’s record. Of course, right now he has no idea where he is, so that’s an entirely different problem. That’s a very big, different problem. Look, we have to say it like it is. Hey, we have the greatest country in the world and we have potential like no country has, and we can’t play games. We can’t play games. We can’t. And besides that, he’s not a nice guy. Okay? Just so you know, he was never a nice guy. So I feel better. If he was a nice guy, I wouldn’t say it.
USA! USA! USA!
Thank you very much. Thank you. Decade after decade, Biden twisted his knife into the back of Wisconsin workers, but workers throughout the United States, you don’t have to take my word for it, for a special group of people, the people of Wisconsin. I spent a lot of money on this crazy video. Look at this. And you’re going to see it. I hope that people back here can see it. Can you see it too? I hope. Oh, that’s terrible. All right. You’ll take my word for it. Go ahead. Play.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements, like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people who are making pennies, and [inaudible 00:14:53] has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The President is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton doing didn’t do enough about-
That China has been cheating for 25 years, and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
A rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. A rising in China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which you supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, that those steps allow China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA. I never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
I didn’t. Show the tape. Put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee you we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
What about safe stopping and fracking, and stopping pipeline infrastructure and-
Yes, yes, no pipelining. Exactly.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question-
Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
I would transition from the oil industry, yes. I would transition.
Oh, that’s a big statement. That is a big statement in terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? We remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma.
Vice president.
Now to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plans. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along during a quickie escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal. One of the things that is important is that keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on I think today.
That was terrifying.
What kind of country are we going to be? Four more years of George, we’re going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
That was yesterday. That was all yesterday. So that took place yesterday. Every day we could put up another treat. The whole thing is ridiculous. The whole thing. Until the plague came in from China, I didn’t even have a race. And then it came in and we did a great job. We saved millions of lives. two million lives, 2.2 million it was supposed to be. And this guy, “Oh, don’t ban it.” He’s xenophobic, right? Don’t ban China. Don’t China. And this is in January or very early on, very, very early. Everybody said don’t ban. I’m not blaming anybody, but they all said don’t ban.
I said it’s a heavily infected country. It’s starting from there. I banned China. Then I banned Europe with all of the problems they were having with Spain and Italy and France and everybody. And I banned Europe and two and a half months later, he was saying, don’t ban and then he runs for president. He lucks out because Pocahontas decided to stay in. So she took a lot of votes away from Bernie. Not too many. She didn’t do too well, but she took enough away that he ends up winning on Super Tuesday. Right?
And all of a sudden I got this guy running and he starts complaining that I should have moved faster, but he was two and a half months behind. And I said that’s going to be hard to explain, but I have to explain it to people. One thing nice is when you put this thing up here, saves you a lot of words, right? It saves you a lot of words. And then the other thing, remember for a year, “We will not frack.” Now it affects you because of your energy costs and all of the things that affects everybody.
We’re right now energy independence. It’s a great thing. First time. Can you imagine Texas, Pennsylvania, the different places, Ohio, so many places, so many places, North Dakota? Can you imagine? Take Texas. I mean, he’s against oil, he’s against guns and he’s against religion. Right? Other than that, he’s wonderful. He’s just perfect. And then they say, “It’s a very close race in Texas.” I don’t think so. You’re against oil, guns and God. You don’t have a close race in Texas. I don’t think so.
But they said the same thing years ago that, “Texas is too close to call. It’s going to be a very, very tough race for Donald Trump.” Then it was Donald, right? Now they call me president out of respect I’m sure for the office. “It will be a very, very, very tough race. I mean, the polls have closed in Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.” It was like all in one thing. They don’t do that unless you have a landslide. Now they do the same thing again. Well, this time, at least they say I have a little lead. How can you have a little lead when I’m the oil person Louie needed to fire up your factories?
They don’t even know how to do it. They have AOC plus three. They say, “Okay, we’ll get rid of all fossil fuels.” We have a problem in Wisconsin. We’re doing very well. We have a lot of factories. We have a lot of plants. How are we going to fire them up? She has no clue. She has no clue. I don’t even think she studied it. Maybe in high school she studied it, but probably not in college. Did she go to college? Tell me. Did she? Because I don’t know. I don’t know her background, but it is not heavy into the environment.
All of a sudden she comes up with the Green New Deal and these people all did because they have to because the radical left wants them. The Green New Deal will cost $100 trillion. If we have a hundred perfect years, the greatest years of the history of our country, we can’t make it with a 100 trillion spent on the Green New Deal. In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider’s president who is finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. It’s one of the reasons I was elected if I was a politician I probably wouldn’t have been elected, right?
If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I’m fighting for you harder than any president has ever fought for you. Together, we’ll continue to fight for American workers, support our police, defend our second amendment, which is under siege, but don’t worry about it. Don’t worry about it. It’s fine. But it is under siege. Secure our borders. And you know the wall is up to over 400 miles right now. We have a very secure border. Over four. We’re going to have it finished very soon.
They don’t talk about it anymore. You know they used to go, “He will never get it built.” Because that was like you couldn’t. The Democrat party was so against it, they said it was obsolete. Used drones so we can watch everybody pour into the border. Right? Let’s send a drone up there, right? Walls and wheels, right? Walls and wheels never get obsolete. That’s about the only two things I know of that don’t get obsolete. Everything else is obsolete about 15 minutes after you figure it out.
And ensure more products are proudly stamped with that wonderful, beautiful phrase made in the USA, right? We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth at a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends this pandemic. And you know with the fake news, everything is COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. I had it. Here I am, right? Now. I had it. The First Lady had it Barron had it, but Barron had it for about 12 seconds. Young, young immune system, young.
No, it’s COVID. You turn on the news, COVID, COVID. You know when they’re going to stop talking about it so much? November 4th year. You’re right. November 4th. I know. It’s a whole crazy thing. I mean, it’s too complicated to explain. These people are very corrupt, very dishonest, but they’ve got a lot of problems. On November 4th, you’ll hear we’re doing extremely well and you’ll see. You’ll see. They used to always say that Europe, look at Europe, look at Europe. Well, first of all, they count their cases totally differently, but look at Europe. Well, they have a big spike and you know what? It’s going to go down and we had a spike in Miami.
We had a spike in Texas, Arizona. It’s all way down to very low numbers, but I’ll tell you all they want to talk about is COVID. But the good news on the fourth, they’ll stop talking. You watch. They’ll stop talking. You get out that red wave, just get out. We have to win this election. This is the most important election we’ve ever had. We can’t let this radical left socialist group take over. And I’ve been saying it now for a long time, because I see it. There’s this inclination by a group of people, our country will never be a socialist nation. We will never become a socialist nation.
Normal life will fully resume. That’s all we want is normal life. Seven months ago, right? We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. Everybody was doing well. Best numbers we’ve ever had. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening. You see how it’s being built up. And by the way, I’d love to do stimulus, but Crazy Nancy doesn’t want to do it. She wants to get bailout money for her Democrat run states that are high crime and doing badly.
And I spoke for Wisconsin when I said, “No, thank you, Nancy. Have a good time.” We’ll get big stimulus right after the election’s over. Hopefully we can take back the House too. It’ll be nice. Get rid of her. Get rid of her as speaker. We’ll get Kevin there and Kevin would be good. You know who Kevin is? Kevin McCarthy. If Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, you know what’s going on with your regulations? I’ve got your regulations down to a level, but we can go further. We have statutory requirements. We’re going further.
They’ll bury really your family and yourself and regulations, terminate religious liberty, dissolve our borders, indoctrinate our children with that really bad stuff that they want to teach in schools, which we’ve largely ended. But it can be started again and destroy the suburbs beyond repair. Suburban women, you’re going to love me. You better love me. Did you see 60 minutes the other night? I always joke. I say “Suburban women, I’m getting rid of the regulation.” You know there’s a regulation that essentially destroyed the suburbs. Okay? It would have.
You know who is in charge of it, who would have been? Cory Booker. Good luck, Cory. He’s another beauty. We deal with some real beauties, but we had a regulation where they can build low-income housing and projects in a neighborhood near you. Right in the neighborhood near you in the suburbs. Right? So the fake news was saying, “We think that Donald Trump is having problems with suburban women.” I said, “Why? Because I’m going to stop crime from going to the suburbs?” Because you know Antifa and the anarchists, they view the suburbs is next. That’s what they would like. Right? So the suburban woman wants law and order, they want safety and they don’t want a regulation that’s going to destroy the suburbs.
And then I listened to these people talk about how so four years ago they talked about the same thing. They said, “Women will not be voting for Donald Trump.” And then after about four hours and they declared total victory for Trump, they said, “He cannot get to 270. He cannot.” This was in the afternoon and for about six months before that, by the way. Didn’t just start. “Donald Trump cannot get.” You need 270, right? “Cannot get to 270. He cannot get.” And they were right. We got 306.
Well, we picked up a place called Wisconsin that helped a little bit. That wasn’t high on the list of victories. Now it is, but we just know it just came out. We’re leading by three points. That’s good. They won’t report that. They won’t report that. They’ll look at 30 polls. They’ll look at 30 polls. Some of them are totally fixed. Some of them are sickos, right? They look at polls where they interview 38% Democrats, 21% Republicans. I said that, “Doesn’t sound like too fair to me.” And they’ll say, “Trump is done by five.” Well, if I’m down by five, when they’re doing 38 to 21, that means I’m winning in-
When they’re doing 38 to 21. That means I’m winning in a landslide. What kind of polls are these? No, seriously. What kinds of polls are these? These people are crazy. Joe Biden will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, shutter your schools. Open your schools, please. Bankrupt your small businesses, and shut down our country. He will destroy our country. And by the way, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. I said that a long time ago. Except when I originally said. I had no… I felt it. I felt it was bad. I just felt it was an instinct. It can’t be worse than the problem itself. So the shutdown, with alcoholism, with drugs, with abuse, with suicides, with all the things that happen, it’s worse. You can’t do this. You’ve got to get your governors to open up. There aren’t many of them. There aren’t many of them there aren’t many of them now, but you’ve got to… One of the reasons, this is another one. We’ll go to the fourth, November 4th.
They’ll be announcing, “We’re opening our state.” One of them, stupidly, like three weeks ago announced, “Yeah, we think we’re going to open probably around November 4th.” How about that genius? You’ll all be open around a couple of days after the election. Biden even wants to lock down young and healthy Americans, yet for those under age 50 the recovery rate is 99.98%. Think of that. 99. 98%. And for school kids it’s better than that. Biden’s cruel and senseless lockdowns would cause countless deaths from suicide and from all of the problems we have, and we would have problems. And economic, people lose their jobs. They lose their jobs, their small businesses go out or they work for small businesses or big businesses that go out. We’ve got to open up our states. We’ve got to tell your governor, we got to open up our states. Does anybody like your governor? Do you like him? Okay, let’s have a… Who likes the governor? Is he going to win reelection?
No.
Who does not like the governor? All right. Interesting. Lots of love, governor. Got to open up. A lot of governors that did this. You know Michigan, the only one that it was allowed to go around and roam was her husband. He was allowed to go fishing and sailing. Nobody else was, they had to stay locked up in their house. But we won a Supreme Court case against them. They found it unconstitutional that she locked down the state of Michigan. I just left Michigan. I gave a speech in 32 degree weather in the rain.
And they’re great people and they’re strong people, so I said, “You know what I’ll do? I won’t put on a hat and I’ll just stand there in the rain and I’ll freeze and I’ll make a speech.” But I’ll tell, you there was such love. It was incredible. We’re winning Michigan, too. We’re winning Michigan. I had a nice hat on, I was going to put it on. And they were waiting for four or five hours. I said, “I feel so guilty.” I was on time, but they get there very early, like probably some of you. You got here very early. All these front rowers I know got here. I know the front rowers get here very early. We have it where they get three, four days in advance. Were you here three, four days? No.
You promise you voted for Trump, right? She’s great. We have great people. We’ve never had… And four years ago we had the most enthusiastic campaign anyone’s ever seen, probably there ever was this. This campaign, and I never thought I’d say it, has more enthusiasm, more support than we did four years ago, because four years ago I was a business guy. I was successful, I was very successful. I came and I said I was going to do… Go ahead. Go ahead. Get it out of your system.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
So four years ago I came and I saw trade. Probably trade was the big… It just drove me crazy. We’re losing all our factories, closing all our factories. They’re moving to Mexico, they’re making it in China, they’re doing all these things. A lot of places moved up to Canada. Canada was very tough on us. And I saw this, that’s probably the main reason I ran. But I saw it all happening. It was so easy to see. I saw it all happening, and that’s probably the main reason I ran. But four years ago I was just saying, “I’m going to cut your taxes. I’m going to cut regulations. I’m going to rebuild your military. I’m going to do all the things I said.” And actually I did more, because Space Force. We opened up Space Force.
I never said I was going to do that. I learned that after watching Russia and China and everything else. I learned that after I was here. One of these people right back there said, “He may be the only politician that actually did more than he promised during the campaign.” I believe that’s true. So we have actually more enthusiasm because I did everything. I said the wall. The wall was just very expensive. The border patrol wanted a certain way, very expensive. They’re right, they wanted vision, they wanted steel, they wanted rebar, they wanted concrete inside. And I said, “You know what? I’ll do it. I want to do it the way you want it. I don’t want to give you any excuses for doing a bad job on the border.” Gee, if you only would’ve built the wall right. But all of the things that I said, I did. Everything I said, I did.
And that gives this campaign more energy than a guy that was successful that said, “Hey, I’m going to do a lot of things.” Because you’ve been hearing that for years from politicians, and they don’t do it. They don’t get the job. As I said about Biden the other night at the debate, “Joe, you’re all talk and no action.” And it’s true. And I’d looked at him and I’d say, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” He’d say, “Well, we should’ve done this. We should’ve done that.” I said, “Joe, you’ve been there for 47 years and you left three and a half years ago. It’s not like you left 30 years ago. You left three and a half years ago. And I only ran because of you, Joe. Because if you and Obama did a good job I wouldn’t have run, there would’ve been no reason. And if I did, I probably wouldn’t have been able to win.”
So I only ran… It was quite insulting to him, but that’s the way it is. Biden had no plan, no idea. He didn’t have a clue. He just wants to lock up this country. He really does. He’s going to lock it up. If one guy walks up and says, “Sir, I think we should close up our country.” “Okay, that sounds good to me.” While letting rioters and looters run wild, or as Joe calls them peaceful protestors. I call you protesters. You know why? Because there’s a legal definition. You can’t have a political rally. They did that to keep me out. So I said, “Oh I see, you’re protesters.” The only thing you can do is protest, because they wanted to protect anarchists, rioters people that were burning down your stores. So you have the absolute right to protest. So I call this a friendly protest, okay? Officially. Not a rally. This is not a rally, it’s a friendly protest. Okay, now we’ve gotten over the legal hurdle, haven’t we? These people don’t believe in science. They believe in whatever gives them power and whatever gives them control.
The Biden plan will crush you and crush your family. We will crush the virus and make our success, make this country more successful than it’s ever been. We have that kind of potential. We have the foundation set. You see what’s happening, you see the kind of numbers we’re doing. We’re going to make our country more successful, quickly, than it’s ever been. When the China plague arrived we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We airlifted medical supplies, pioneered groundbreaking therapies, reduced the fatality rate 85%. Think of that. 85%. And now it’s actually higher than that. Well, here I am. I’m here, right? I said, “Give me that stuff. Whatever the hell it is, doctor, I want it.” The next day I woke up and I felt like Superman. I said, “Get me the hell out of here. I have to go to Wisconsin tonight.”
And saved over 2 million lives. Our excess mortality rate has been 42% less than Europe’s. Think of that, 42%. And we’re working with Europe very closely. Look, they have a problem. It should’ve never been allowed to leave China, ever. It should have never been allowed. Once it got Wuhan, Wuhan province, it never got out, but it came to the USA and Europe and the rest of the world. I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment I received, so what we’re doing is we’re going to make the Regeneron and Eli Lilly, a great company, has a similar antibody drug. And we’re going to make that available to people that need it, free. All I know is I didn’t feel great. And after I took that, I woke up the next morning, and I’ll tell you, I felt like I could take on the world. I said, “Let me out of…”
And here we are standing here, freezing. Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all current emergency rooms visits are for something other than the virus. You don’t hear these numbers from the fake news. Think of that, 97%. And we’re on track to deliver 100 million doses of safe vaccine. And I say, we’re turning the corner. We’re turning the corner. We’re rounding, like this racetrack. Look at this, it’s perfect.
We’re rounding the curve. We will vanquish the virus. And by the way, we’re going to have the vaccine. Johnson &amp; Johnson, Pfizer, Moderna. great companies, and others too. We have the vaccine. We’re going to have it very soon. Very soon. We’re going to deliver it. But without it, also, we’re rounding the curve, we’re rounding the corner. It’s happening. We’re going to emerge stronger than ever before. Biden’s made a corrupt bargain, and the Democrats. In exchange for his party’s nomination he is handed control of his party over to a rage-filled socialists and Marxists and the left wing extremists. You see it in Portland. How about Portland? We could solve that problem in I’d say a half an hour. Anarchists, you know what happens to them, right? They go back home to mom and dad. And they also stay in the basement, that’s what they have in common with Joe.
Joe, in that one clip. That was yesterday, that took place. That was what happened. He was in the basement. He heard that we were doing really well in Pennsylvania, which we are. We’re at least two or three points up. Doesn’t sound like much. You know what happens with us? They’ll say, “He’s three points up,” and then you win by like 10. Got a lot of hidden votes out there. I don’t know if I’m supposed to be complimented by that and not, but there are hidden votes. They don’t want to talk. They are all action, they call that all action. If Biden wins, the flag burning radicals on the streets will be running for… You know that. They’ll be running your government, there’ll be running your government. This is Election Day, you must stop the anti-American radicals by delivering Joe Biden and those far left Democrats, all Democrats, a thundering defeat. This has to be a big defeat so we can end it. Just end it.
And Joe Biden, as you see, is a corrupt politician. He wants to send your jobs to China while his family rakes in millions from the Chinese Communist Party. Millions. And he gets money from Ukraine, he gets money from Russia. How about Ukraine? His son sits on the board. No energy experience, no nothing. Didn’t have a job. Father becomes vice-president, he becomes in charge of Ukraine. Son goes on the board of Barisma. Goes on the board of Barisma, $183,000 a month. Would you say that’s good? Would you say that’s good? If Biden wins, China wins. China will own the USA if this happens, and they don’t want me to win. They don’t want me. We charge them tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs. We never took 25 cents from China.
And now we gave out… Where is Hunter? She’s going, “Where is hunter?” Where is hunter? By the way, come to think of it, how about the laptop from hell? Let’s call it the laptop from hell. And then you see shifting Schiff, “It was Russia that created the laptop. It was Russia.” Shifty Schiff. He says there with a straight face, watermelon shaped head, like a watermelon. ” It was Russia.” I said, “Oh no, here we go again.” When we win, you win, Wisconsin wins, and America wins. That’s what’s going to happen. We’re joined today by members of Wisconsin Manufacturers &amp; Commerce. They really helped us with this location. And we were going to be out at the airport but the governor made it very difficult so I said, “That’s all right, get a location. Friendly people.” And they really are, your state’s chamber of commerce, and I want to thank them very much. Where are you folks? Where are you guys? What a group of people. Where? Where The hell are you? I met you at the airport. There they are. Good job you did. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. Good job.
I said, “How are we doing?” They said, “Sir, you’re going to win easy.” That’s pretty good. They slightly know the area. I’m thrilled to receive their first ever presidential endorsement. They’ve been around a long time and they gave us their… We’ve got a lot of endorsements. Got a lot of newspaper endorsements today, too. A lot of them, all over the country. And virtually every law enforcement group has given us the endorsement, even New York’s finest. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate and they went be given back… We’ve got to respect our law enforcement. We’ve got to let them do what they have to do. Also with us is candidate for congress, Derrick Van Orden. Terrific. Where’s Derrick? Derrick, good luck. I hear good things.
… Orden, who’s terrific. Where’s Derrick? Derrick, good luck. I hear good things Derrick. I hear good things. Derrick Van Orden, please vote for him. Win. His competition is not good. Not good. And also state GOP Chairman, Andrew Hitt. Andrew, thank you. Are we winning Andrew, please? If we don’t win, we’re going to fire you so fast. Ah, I hear good. Yeah, just get out that vote. Get out the vote.
Together we built the greatest economy in history, and now we’re doing it again. Make America Great Again Again. Right? Again Again. See all those hats? Those hats are obsolete. It’s Make America Great Again Again. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000 more than five times the gains made under the last administration. Think of that. In a short period of time, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, unemployment reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and proudly signed the brand new USMCA into law. That’s going to be a big deal. Just kicked in.
Wisconsin dairy farms were decimated under the Obama and Biden nightmare. They were decimated, and now you are doing very well, and you know Canada took advantage of you very much. You know that right? Not anymore. Under the USMCA our dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by at least 100%. And we got rid of the tariffs. You know the tariffs? You know they used to charge you. You didn’t know this. You like the song, O Canada. Right? Yeah, hockey game, nice song. O Canada, their national anthem. Right? By the way, they stand for our national anthem. Our people have to stand for our national anthem. They have to stand.
But Canada treated us badly, 287% tariff. Can you believe that? Think of it. I learned about that I said, “It’s time to get out of that crazy NAFTA.” NAFTA was a terrible thing. When GM went bankrupt Biden and Obama threw the workers of Delphi Corporation to the wolves. Their pensions were wiped out. I signed an order to restore the pensions of Delphi and others, and healthcare benefits promised the workers. These are workers in Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin that got really promised a lot of things and it never happened. We took care of it. I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. Took care of it. They were treated very badly with a lot of promises from Biden and Obama.
By the way, did you see this? Did you see the people they get for the crowds? Obama was up. He drew flies today, flies. He drew nobody. You know the cars are honking. Right? Honk, honk, honk. Let’s go home. I never saw anything like this. They have cars. They have like 12 cars. Now they have circles. They had to have bigger circles for cars together. I never saw anything like it. Obama has no crowd. I thought he had like a crowd. Right? He doesn’t have anything.
The only one that has smaller crowds is sleepy Joe Biden. He’s got nobody, and the press doesn’t like covering our crowds. We have the opposite. We have so many people. They don’t like it. But they never show that nobody … Joe was speaking yesterday. There was nobody there before they carried him off the stage. Think of it. He got nervous speaking to nobody. But that wasn’t nervous. That was another problem.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. My opponent’s insane immigration plan completely eliminates U.S. borders by implementing nationwide catch and release. You know what that is. You catch a criminal, murderer, rapist. You catch them and you have to release them into the United States. Then within two or three years they’re supposed to come back for a trial. We had an argument during the debate. I said, “Sleepy Joe, they don’t come back.” “Yes they do. They proudly come back.” No, no, Joe. They’re murderers. They don’t come back Joe. I turned out to be right, but you know.
He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military. You know that, right? You are a big beneficiary this state. A lot of business in this state, including nearly $6 billion to save the historic shipyard, Marinette Marine. You know that, right? And they’re great. I was there four or five months ago. I was watching. They build beautiful, beautiful … It looks like a yacht with lots of weapons on it. The only difference is you got rockets all over the damn thing, but it is beautiful.
We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s number one terrorist. Soleimani is dead. We took out 100% of the ISIS caliphate [inaudible 00:05:12]. When I took over it was a mess. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. You know what we got? Nothing. I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. Instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. We’re doing it. It’s like working out really well. Three countries already, and many are lined up. They’re all wanting to get in.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American Dream. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln. It’s a vote for the American Dream. In conclusion, over the next four years we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already happening. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, right here in Wisconsin. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. You don’t want the sanctuary cities.
We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. It’s very important. Supreme Court, you got to do that. You got to remember. A lot of people think that’s why I got elected because of the Supreme Court. And we’ve got already three great justices and Amy yesterday. By the end of the first term we’ll have close to three, maybe more, but approximately 300 federal judges, including court of appeals judges. A record. It’s a record.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. So the two-and-a-half trillion dollars, the greatest rockets and missiles, hydrosonic. The greatest in the world. They go seven times faster than what we have today. We have tanks. We have planes. We have bombers. We have submarines. We’ve rebuilt our military. We have the greatest equipment, the greatest military force in the world. Russia, China, everybody, they are envious. Nobody thought we could do this, and we’ve done it all. A lot of it’s made right here, but all made in the USA. All made in the USA. Our nuclear is now in tippy-top shape, and just hope, just hope, that we never have to use it. That’s all.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. Already signed. January 1st it goes into effect. Lower drug prices even further, favored nations. Nobody can believe I did it, and we’re going to get the lowest prices in the world. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. NASA right now is the talk of the world as a space center. Again, it was closed and a mess when I took over. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust. Right? For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Wisconsin. That’s what we’re doing. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, even grab your boss if you have to. Come on boss, you got to go out and get out and vote. You got to get out and vote. Got to get out. This is a thing you got to do. Just remember the great red wave. It’s now just starting to form, and they know it’s coming. They know it’s coming. We didn’t come this far and fight this hard to surrender our country back to the corrupt Washington swamp.
On November 3rd we must finish the job, drain the swamp. Go out and vote. Could be before November 3rd. Go out and vote. From Green Bay to La Crosse, from Madison to Milwaukee, and from Janesville to right here in West Salem, we inherit the legacy of red-blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated Fascism and Communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Wisconsin we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you Wisconsin. Thank you very much. Get out and vote. Thank you very much.
Wow. Thank you very much. Thank you. I feel so guilty you’re waiting out here in the rain. They gave me a hat. I said, “You know, they’ve been waiting out here for hours. I shouldn’t put on a hat,” right? They even said, “Sir, we have the car, it’s going to take you from the beautiful Air Force One,” isn’t that a beauty? But, “They’re going to take you from Air Force One.” I said, “I got to walk it.” I mean, these people are tough. They’re from Lansing, they’re from Michigan, I got to walk it. I got to walk it. Don’t give me the umbrella, I’m soaking wet already.
But hello Lansing. Hello, Michigan. This was the scene of a great victory. Remember that? Four years ago, “Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan.” That was big. It hadn’t been done in decades, but I don’t know if you saw the poll that just came out, we’re up three in Michigan. I think we’re up a lot more, you know, they give you the fake polls. I think we’re up a lot more. We’re going to have a great red wave people that want to go out and vote. They want to go out and they want to touch. They want to vote. It’s a great red wave. It’s happening in Florida. We’re up in Florida, up four, up four.
I’m watching these guys, they way talk, “The poll, oh,” they’re down 25 in Michigan. I said, “No, we’re going to win Michigan.” No. No, I kid when I say 25, but they put numbers, they’re called suppression, suppression polls. They make you like, feel badly, so you said to your wife, or you said your husband, “Darling, let’s go out to dinner and then we’ll come back. We love our president, but you know, the polls say he can win.” Well, right now we’re leading in almost everywhere. The real … We’re leading almost everywhere
Now I’ve got to say, I’m working my ass off here. Sleepy, Joe, the guy goes to his basement. He’s got another lid. He goes to the basement, the lid, right? That’s the garbage can, they put a lid on you. No, yesterday we had three big ones, really big. In Pennsylvania was incredible. The crowds were incredible, like this, they’re all packed. They got people outside, I see people in the streets. It’s crazy.
I always say to my people, “Why don’t you just get a bigger airport? Get a bigger …” Well, these are better than the arenas because our rallies are bigger than they’ve ever been, and the arenas, even if it’s 18,000 people, we’ve had 40, 45 50. You can’t hold them. And you know what’s nice? You get out of the plane, you say a few words, you go back to the plane, you say, “Bye-bye. Vote for me.” But that’s actually what Democrats do. They say, “Vote for me,” and they’re lovely to you for a few months before the election, and after the election, it’s … They’re gone.
Nobody’s done for Michigan what I have, you have car plants being built all over, and you didn’t have a plan built in 42 years. You have them all over. I tell Japan, I tell Germany, “No, we’re not interested, go and build plants,” and I always suggest to Michigan because I have to tell you, I think of cars, I think of Michigan.
When I got the Man of the Year, I got Man of the Year at Michigan, a long time ago, like 12 years ago, nothing to do with politics. They wrote, “Man of the Year.” I came here and I gave a big lecture on the fact, I said, “Mexico is stealing your plants. They’re going to Canada, they going to …” you lost 32% of your car production. I said, “What the hell is going on?” It turned out to be quite a controversial acceptance, but I felt that, it’s probably the number one reason that I’m standing here because of trade and have we turned that around.
Seven days from now, we’re going to win the great state of Michigan, and we’re going to win four more years in the White House. By the way, there has never been a campaign …
There has never been a campaign, in the history of this country … First of all, there’s never been a movement like this, there’s never been. But there’s been a campaign, and we had the record. You know, the record was four years ago that has had more enthusiasm or bigger crowds than there’s ever been. Don’t forget, they may have a crowd that’s a big crowd the night before an election, you know? But not really. There’s never been. This is … Thank you. Thank you, that’s really nice.
A phrase, I really, I say, I don’t think they’ll find it because look at all of them back there. Look at them. Look, oh! Hello, John Roberts. He’s been very nice to us. John Roberts has been very nice to us. Thank you John. But John has never been a phrase, “We love you,” in the history of politics. I don’t care where you go and it happens, and I love you too. I do. I love you too. That’s why we’re here.
But there’s never been anything like this in terms of enthusiasm, in terms of crowds. I saw Obama this morning. He had a couple of cars, they’re honking their horn, and then I saw sleepy Joe, so he came out yesterday, right? And you’re going to see this. He came out yesterday and he made a speech and then they had a rip of off the stage because he had lost it because he’s gone.
Once again, Michigan is going to answer the call of history and show the world that sleepy Joe Biden, his dark money donors and his corrupt special interests, and by the way, there’s never been anything like this. He goes into a country and the family walks out with billions of dollars, millions and millions of dollars.
Then the press isn’t allowed to report. The press doesn’t report it. They don’t cover it. The New York Times, The Washington Post, they don’t cover it. CNN …
You know, I introduced the great justice of the Supreme court last night, right? They say, it’s the most important thing a president can do. I say maybe military, but regardless, we’ve rebuilt our military like nobody would ever believe. But you know what? It’s one of the most important … Especially because this turns the court, they had a whole thing, the most important thing in 50 years, and CNN and MSDNC didn’t cover, they didn’t cover it. They wouldn’t cover. They just couldn’t. Even though their ratings go through the roof. 60 Minutes had very good ratings the other night, a fake report, but the ratings go through the roof.
But they didn’t cover my introduction. Can you believe that? My introduction of a woman that’s going to be there hopefully for 50 years, as far as I’m concerned. And last night we did, we made history and we confirmed Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court, and Justice Barrett will defend our rights, will defend our liberties and our God given freedom. She’s going to be fantastic and she’s a terrific person.
Joe Biden, Kamala, do you like Kamala? Do you like her to be your vice-president? I don’t know. If he gets elected, three weeks into his presidency, they’ll say, “Kamala, you’re ready? Let’s go.” That’s why they’re talking about the … That’s why they’re talking about the 25th amendment, right? Three weeks. Three weeks in, Joe’s shot, “Let’s go Kamala, are you get ready?” Most liberal person in the Senate.
She makes Bernie Sanders look like a serious conservative. This will not be … We can’t let it happen. This will not be the first woman president. You can have a woman president, but this will not be the first woman president. That’s a lot of cameras back there. That’s right.
They’re all screaming, Ivanka. You know, Ivanka? You know, she’s great. She just loves to … She’s out campaigning today, doing really well. But she could be very happy, her husband’s here, Jared Kushner, he’s making peace in the middle East. He’s here. Where’s Jared? Where’s Jared? We got to find him. He’s never around too much. He doesn’t want any accolades, but he’s done something nobody else has done, he’s leading peace in the middle East without blood. Find Jared. He doesn’t want to be outside, he’s Mr. Inside, but he’s smart.
But Ivanka she’d be very happy just being a home with the kids and we got her working, and you know who’s making a speech today? The first lady, she’s out in Pennsylvania. People love our first lady. Our first lady is doing a great job. I mean, she got the plague from China. So did I. So did Barron. Barron recovered in about 12 minutes. “How are you feeling Barron?” “Okay.” “What was the problem Barron?” “I don’t know, I didn’t think I had a problem.”
The doctor told me, “Sir, your son has tested positive.” I see him like 12 seconds later, “Doctor, how’s he doing?” “He’s he’s all better.” Doctor did you give him one of those miracle cures?” ” No, sir. He just recovered.” Hey, young kids have a very strong immune system. Nobody even knew it. Get your children back to school, get them back to school.
I mean your governor’s a disaster. They got to open up this state, and she’s got to keep her husband away from sailing and fishing. The only one that’s free in your state is her husband. No, it’s no good. That’s no good. You can’t do it. Joe Biden, Kamala Harris. Of course, she has it the reverse. She’s got the, “In the Harris …” And he actually said it didn’t he? “In the Harris-Biden.”
You know, I have a great vice president and we all do. I want to give him tremendous credit, but I will never say, “In the Pence-Trump administration,” I will never say that. But he says it. That’s because he doesn’t have any clue where he is. You saw that and the radical Democrats want to pack the Supreme Court with far left Justices who won’t shred our constitution, abolish the second amendment, terminate religious liberty, shield violent criminals, and regulate your economy into oblivion. You will have a depression.
If he gets in, he’s going to raise your taxes at a level that nobody’s ever seen. He is the first candidate I’ve ever seen who is running on a promise that, “I will raise your taxes.” I’ve never heard that one. I’ve been involved in followed and studied politics for a long time. He’ll be the first one. “I will raise your taxes massively.” It’s going to be the biggest tax increase in history. I’ve never heard of that one before, I like running against that guy.
This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan. Look what I’ve done, we’ve all done together for this state. This state, you’re building cars again, and if your union leaders weren’t in the pockets of the Democrats, because we get the vote, but they got these guys that just … They come to the White House., They’re so nice to me, nice to me, but they go for the Democrats every time for a certain reason. Someday, we’ll talk about it. But the people, the workers, are for us. So the workers for me.
Biden’s plan to abolish the entire us oil industry, you saw that? Will cripple our nation and send us into an absolute deep depression. You see what he did with fracking? “There will be no fracking. There will be no …” No, he doesn’t say it that way. He goes, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” But he said it for like a year, and then he got to Pennsylvania where we’re leading, but we’re going to put it … See that big, beautiful screen. We’ll have it up there. It saves me a lot of words, that screen is great. It costs a fortune. We only bring it to very important location like Michigan.
But then you can hear it in his own words. You don’t say, “Oh, the president’s exaggerating.” No, he said, “No fracking, no fracking. No fracking.” Then he goes to Pennsylvania, a million jobs, fracking. It’s a big part of their economy. A big part of your economy from the standpoint of energy, right? And gas. How do you like the gasoline prices at $2, right? It’s amazing.
As they go up, you produce fewer and fewer cars. Well, I got you down to the lowest level, you are so lucky I’m President. I’m going to give another major tax cut after already having passed the largest tax cut in the history of our country. We were giving a very big middle income tax cut.
Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. They’re all coming back. You know that? They’ve been coming back, but our soldiers are all coming back.
We’re all over the place. We’re all over that. We’re in places that even the top people in the country have never heard of these places. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA. You got killed by NAFTA. A catastrophe for the auto industry and for your state. Following NAFTA, one third of the auto jobs left and they went to Mexico and Canada, but they went to Mexico.
Biden, enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization fueling the rise of China on the backs of Michigan workers. What China has done, there has been nothing, nothing, nobody, no country, there has been no country that has ripped us off for 25 years, 30 years like China. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year flows into China and I put big fat, beautiful tariffs on China. We took in tens of billions of dollars. Nobody else did it.
And when they targeted our farmers, I told the farmers, “Don’t worry about it,” and we gave him 28 billion, which is the amount they were targeted. We don’t have too many farmers in this crowd. We gave him $28 billion, our farmers, everybody’s happy with that. You got about three farmers here, but you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when …
… But you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when Obama said there’ll be no more manufacturing? You’d need a magic wand? Well, we had 700,000 manufacturing jobs. You’d need a magic wand. Altogether, half of all auto manufacturing jobs in Michigan were wiped out, think of that. After the Biden-backed NAFTA and China disasters, China became powerful because of the World Trade Organization. It became powerful, a terrible, terrible thing for our country. And then Biden goes around saying, well, no, China’s good for us. No, no, no. They haven’t been.
How have they been? No, I don’t think so good. And then the plague on top of everything else, we got the plague sent in. He repeatedly tried to slash Medicare and Social Security. People didn’t even know. Decade after decade, Biden has twisted his knife into the back of Michigan workers, and workers all over the United States. You don’t have to take my word for it. We have Joe on tape. Please roll the tape.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do, and I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people who are making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton dune didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about.
A rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. A rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea they are our competition, they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks.
China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which you supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us.
No.
Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
Doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA.
I have never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
I did … Show the tape, put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guaranteed we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
What about states stopping fracking and stopping pipeline infrastructure?
Yeah. New pipeline, exactly.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question ..,
Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
I’ll have a transition from their oil industry, yes. I will transition.
That’s a big statement.
That is a big statement.
In terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because …
Okay. We have one final question.
… Basically what he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? Will you remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma?
Vice president.
Well, may I ask you a question, Joe?
Yeah.
You’re right here with me.
Yeah.
Have you been on the floor of the Senate? You were in the Senate for a few years.
Yeah.
Time and time again talking about the necessity with pride about cutting Social Security, cutting Medicare, cutting veterans programs?
No.
You never said that?
No.
When I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant Social Security as well. I meant Medicare and Medicaid. I meant veterans. I meant every single solitary thing in the government.
Look, here’s the deal …
You’re an artist. Why don’t you just tell the truth here? We all make mistakes.
I am telling the truth.
And I not only tried it once, I tried it twice, I tried it a third time and I tried it a fourth time.
Joe, let me repeat it again. I want you just to be straight with the American people. I am saying that you have been on the floor of the Senate time and time again talking about the need to cut Social Security, Medicare and veterans programs. Is that true or is that not true?
No, it’s not true.
That is not true?
That is not true.
I meant veterans. I meant every single solitary thing in the government. Everything was on the table. I did not support any of those cuts in Social Security or in veterans.
Whoa, Whoa. Everything was on the table. All right, you’re right. You just said it, including in your judgment cuts to Social Security and veterans.
In order to get the kinds of changes we need on other things related …
Joe, but you just …
But we did not cut it. I did not vote for it.
I know because people like me helped stop that. Although I would say to the American people go to YouTube, it’s all over the place. Joe said it many, many times. I’m surprised you can defend or change your mind on it, but you can’t deny the reality.
Now to be fair, maybe Biden’s not telling us because he’s forgotten his own plans. Watch Biden’s staff quickly swoop in to shuffle him along during a quickie escape the basement trip to Pennsylvania.
Here’s the deal, one of the things that that is important is that keep in mind, although they’re going to vote on that, I think, today.
That was terrifying.
What kind of country we’re going to be, four more years of George, George … Going to find ourselves in a position where if Trump gets elected, we’re going to be in a different world.
The whole thing is crazy. Is that crazy? Is that craziest race? There’s that craziest race. Our country cannot be put in that position. We have too much going, too much potential.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
We cannot be put in that position, so you got to do what’s right. Because one thing we know President Xi of China is not like that. President Putin of Russia. There’s nobody been tougher than Russia. Nobody had been tougher than me to Russia. They want me to lose so badly. He’s not like that. Kim Jong Un. Remember, we’re going to be in a war with North Korea. What happened? What happened to the war? Kim Jong Un not like that. They’re top of the game. And most of the leaders, top of the game. We can’t have that. We can say, hey Xi, that’s wonderful.
But we can’t have that. We can’t have that. We have too much potential. We’re going to have the greatest year ever next year. We had the greatest year we’ve ever had. We had to stop it. We learned about the disease. We saved two million lives. Remember, it was going to be 2.2 million people were going to die. That was the model. We saved two million lives. And now we understand we protect our seniors, but we can’t have that. In 2016, Michigan voted. That’s a lot of people. Look at it as far as. I’m hearing the sound. It sounds like it’s from 20 miles away.
It almost is. Thank you. Thank you. In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first. We’re putting it first. And a lot of times, because I’d become friendly with many of the presidents and prime ministers, kings and queens, dictators, I must tell you, dictators. But I’ve become friendly with a lot of them. And they say two things, it’s incredible what you’ve done with the economy. They always say that. They always say it, no matter what.
They say we have done the most incredible job and they always start off by congratulating me. The next question is they want to buy our military equipment because we make the best equipment anywhere in the world. And sadly, with many of these nations who are not that friendly, we have to say no. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? Anyway, I don’t sound like a politician because I’m not a politician. I never wanted to be a politician. I became a politician for one very specific reason because we’re doing a job in the history of our country in the first three and a half years, nobody has done what we, what we, and this administration has been able to do with regulations, with taxes, with rebuilding our military, with strengthening our borders.
By the way, our border, the strongest it’s ever been. We’re building 10 miles a week. The wall is almost finished. They don’t want to talk about the wall. Remember that’s all they talked about was the wall. The wall is never going to get built. It’s never going to get built. Then I got it built. That’s almost completed. They don’t want to talk about it. And Mexico is paying for the wall. Remember that please. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought before.
One of the biggest issues for Michigan, as you know, is this race. And then this whole thing, it’s the race. It’s all the subject of refugees and what’s happening with refugees and where are they coming from. Biden as pledged, and you saw what happened the other day in France. Biden has pledged a 700% increase. This was done in the manifesto with Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie. He’s crazy. Is he crazy or what? But we love him because we got a big pile of his people last time with crooked Hillary. And they’re going to come again because we’re right on trade.
One thing Bernie Sanders understood, our country was being ripped off on trade by our allies and our foes, okay, by everybody. And he got it. He couldn’t do anything about it, but his people came over, large percentages of people. People find that hard to believe, but they understood trade. Biden has pledged a 700% increase. This is in conjunction with crazy Bernie and AOC plus three, who knows less about this stuff than any human being on earth. But she does have a good line of crap. A 700% increase in refugees from the most dangerous terror hotspots on the planet, including Syria, Somalia.
When I think of Somalia, I think of Omar, Omar, Ilhan, Ilhan Omar, who truly does not like our country. We are going to win Minnesota because of Omar, because of Omar. She likes telling us what we should do, how we should run our country. Isn’t that nice? Omar. No, we’re going to win. She hates our country and we’re going to win also because the national guard went in, should’ve been called a lot sooner. But the national guard went into Minneapolis and it was a beautiful sight. It took what? 22 minutes? It was over after a week and a half of destroying Minneapolis.
So I think between Ilhan Omar, Ilhan Omar and really what happened with respect. We stopped it. They should’ve called us a week and a half early. We’re going to win Minnesota first time since, think of that, first time, I don’t want to guarantee. I don’t want to guarantee anything. I’m a little bit superstitious, but I want to tell you, they like us. They like us in Minnesota and how the hell she gets elected I cannot understand it. His policies will turn Michigan into a refugee camp. It’s true. She goes, I know. You’re right about that. Who said that?
Right? She just said, I know. Everybody knows. He’s also vowed to terminate our national security travel bans. I got a travel ban. I said I want to ban. I took a lot of heat. You remember that right at the beginning. Because if it’s okay with you, I don’t want to have people that want to blow up our country. I don’t want to have people that want to kill our people. So we instituted a travel ban and it was rejected by the first court, rejected by the second court. Ultimately, it was approved by the US Supreme court. We have a travel ban.
And now if we have countries that want to do harm to us, if we have people that want to do harm, we say stay the hell out. It’s very easy. We got a travel ban. And we’re not going to open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. We’re not doing it. I’ve ended the influx of refugees from terrorists regions, you know that, and I’m keeping the jihadists and the violent extremist the hell out of our country, if that’s okay. Now maybe you want them, I don’t know. Maybe you want them. Maybe Michigan, let’s take a vote. Would anybody like them to come to the wonderful state of Michigan?
No!
Okay. I thought I knew you pretty well. No, it’s not easy doing this stuff, and it’s very unpopular. People go after you, but you have to do it. You have to do … Ultimately, I do what’s right, and people understand it. People understand it. Together, we will continue to protect American families, fight for American workers, support our police, defend our second amendment, which has been under siege. If I were not your president, you wouldn’t have a second amendment right now. Secure our borders and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the beautiful phrase made in the USA.
And by the way, do I look soaking wet? Because the media is going to get on me. They’re going to say, he looked like hell today. He didn’t look good. His hair was terrible. It was all horrible. He looked bad. He looked bad. He looked like he was sweating. Does he have a fever? No, it’s 32 degrees out here and it’s freezing and it’s raining, and I’m just trying to keep up with the tough people of Michigan. That’s all. See, I was going to ask you permission to put the hat on. No. Here, take it. That’s a good hat. It’ll be on eBay. It’ll be on eBay tonight. We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends the pandemic. And we’ve done things that nobody believed we could do. And the vaccines are coming right around the corner. And if I weren’t here, it would have taken two, three, four years before you had this stuff. It’s happening now, greatest companies in the world doing it. Normal life will fully resume, and that’s what we want. We want normal life, normal life. Take us back. Take us back seven months ago. We want normal life.
We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. That’s what we want, normal life. Just think of it. That’s all we want. If we didn’t have the plague come in from China, it wasn’t even going to be like we had an election. The only bad part is I probably wouldn’t be standing out here in the freezing rain with you. I’d be home in the White House, doing whatever the hell I was doing. I wouldn’t be out here. And we’re going to do other great places after this. You know that, right? This is stop number one. I’ll get off the plane, at least you with the first stop.
Because I’ll get off the plane, and they’ll say, he looks like hell. What happened to our president? Look at these people. What happened to our president? He looks terrible. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery or a Biden depression. You’re going to have a depression, your 401(k)s down the tubes. Look how great our stock market, had a little blip yesterday because Nancy Pelosi will not approve stimulus. That’s all. But it’s a choice between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown, but you’re already locked down. I mean, this state, we got to get her going.
I don’t know. We got to get her going. I don’t think she likes me too much.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
See, I don’t comment to that because every time if I make just even a little bit of a nod, they say the president led them on. Now I don’t have to leave you on. Even a little nod, they say the president said, right? They asked me that question are crazy 60 Minutes. Wasn’t she rude? She just kept asking me questions. And then they interviewed sleepy Joe, and it was like, everybody just fell asleep. And they got great ratings. That’s unfortunate. They got such good ratings that they’ll want to do it again and again.
But no, wasn’t that terrible, the difference? One is anger, craziness, fire coming out of her eyes. I look, she sits down. She said, are you prepared for tough questions? I said, just be fair. Just be fair. No, no. I mean tough questions. And I … This is the way it starts. With Biden, it’s hello, Mr. Vice President. How about did you see the reporters out? He was walking around with ice cream. What flavor is it? I don’t know. I don’t know. No, he knew. He said he had vanilla and I said, I don’t get … See those killers back there. I don’t get soft questions like that, but I was being interviewed by somebody.
I had a group of-
But I was being interviewed by somebody. I had a group of terrible, terrible people. Sometimes I’ll do an interview just to see if it’s so bad, because I can do very good. I can answer the question. I take all the smiling, all the fun. I just boom, boom, boom. Nobody can do that. Boom, boom, gave him a perfect interview. And then I realized it’s hopeless with these people. And I looked at him, and we’re in the Oval Office. I say, “You know, you’re very unfair. You’re very dishonest. You’re corrupt people. But you know what? We’re in the Oval Office. I’m here, and you’re not.” I’m here, and you’re not. And I sent them on their way, and then I read the article the next day. It was terrible. It bore no relationship to what I told them, but these are minor details. It’s a shame. You know, if we had an honest media, this country would come together so fast. It’s true.
We have, not all of them, but they’re some of the most corrupt people on earth. They are. And you see it, you see it with the Biden corruption. They don’t even want it. They won’t cover it. They won’t talk about it, and that includes Big Tech, section 230. Section 230. Does anybody know about Section [230 00:01:18]? It’s a choice between our plan to kill the virus or Biden’s plan to kill the American dream. That’s what he wants to do. He wants to lock you all up. Let’s stay locked up. So I caught it, but I said, “Hey, I mean, I was given options. I could’ve stayed in the basement of the White House for a year and a half, but I’m your president. I can’t do that. I can’t do that. I can’t stay in the basement of the White House. I can’t stay in a beautiful bedroom upstairs for a year and a half. I’m your president.” And I’d go to meetings, and there’d be a lot of people at those meetings.
And they’d say, “This perhaps is dangerous. I don’t know, this perhaps…” And then one day, “Sir, our great White House physician, White House doctor, he’s here today.” Sean, where’s Sean? Is he around? He’s become more famous than I am, White House doctor. I saw so many doctors when I was in that bed. I said, “Doctor, I don’t feel good.” I had more great doctors, more talent than you’ve ever seen. They were lying around that. I told this story, they’re lying. 12, 12 doctors, Johns Hopkins, all of them. Walter Reed is so incredible. The medical military hospital, the doctors, they really are great, but there were a lot of them. I said, “I don’t feel great, Doc. I got to be honest with you. It’s been a long time, but I don’t feel great.” And they grabbed me, every one of them. They grabbed different parts of my body, and they all were specialists.
They were specialists. And the bottom line is I took something… Regeneron, which we’ll make it available to everybody that needs it, free. And Eli Lilly makes something very similar, and we have things that we didn’t even know about. Think about six months ago. And I don’t know if it was the strength of me. I’d like to give me full credit. I don’t want to give the drug… I was telling somebody the other day, “I don’t want to give the drug any credit.” I want to say, “Because I am a very young person that’s in perfect physical shape, I took that virus and I woke up the next morning and I felt like Superman.” It’s true.
I wanted to get out of there. I said, “Doctors, get me the hell out of there. Get me out.” But it’s true. No, great doctors. But we know things that we didn’t know. We didn’t know. We had no idea about much of this stuff. And you see mortality rate, you see where that is now. And people go in, you get better. They say you have immunity, that you can go in. I could jump… See this crowd right here? I could jump right in. I could give every woman and every man… I’d even kiss the men. I could give every woman and every man right here a kiss, and I wouldn’t catch it. I have immunity. And until I came along, you used to hear, “You have immunity for life,” right?
As soon as I had it and got better, they were not too happy about that. And they said, “The speed… This guy got better.” But you know what? As soon as I had it, I got better. I said I had immunity. It was supposed to be for life. When it was me, they said it’s only good for four months. Okay. Anybody else, it’s for life. With Trump, they said it was four months. So they brought it down now, immunity, from life to four months. And you know now with them, you can’t watch anything else. You turn on… COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. Well, we have a spike in cases. You ever notice, they don’t use the word death. They use the word cases, cases. Like, “Barron Trump is a case.” He has sniffles. He was sniffling. One Kleenex, that’s all he needed. One, and he was better. But he’s a case.
He’s a case, Barron Trump. Young people cases… And you know why we have so many cases? Because we test more, so we go around and they’re… By the way, we’re testing very young people, too. We’re testing people in school. We’re testing everybody. In many ways, I hate it. In many ways, I hate it. We test everybody, and because of that… Now, if I tested half… If I said, “We are going to cut our testing down in half,” they’d go crazy, because the cases would go down in approximately half. And then we’re going to cut it down in half once again. And there are other countries that don’t do testing, and they show very few cases. I mean, it’s a very simple thing, but overall it’s good to have the testing. We find out where it is, and there are a lot of things. But they use it to make us look bad, but here’s the story. It’s COVID, COVID, COVID. You can’t watch anything else. On November 4th, you won’t be hearing so much about it.
November 4th. On November 4th, you’ll hear, “It’s getting better. It’s getting better.” You watch. No, no, they’re doing heavy COVID because they want to scare people, and people get it. I’ll tell you, they understand these people better than… You are smarter than most of the political people in this world. [inaudible 00:46:11] very smart. No, November 4th, you’ll see there’s a big difference. And I’ll tell you what. You know what else is going to happen on November 4th? Your governor, your governor at the urging of her husband who has abused our system very badly, the only man allowed in the state of Michigan, the only man allowed to go sailing is her husband. Now, your governor, I don’t think she likes me too much. Hey. Hey, hey, hey. I’m the one… It was our people that helped her out with her problem. I mean, we’ll have to see if it’s a problem. People are entitled to say, “Maybe it was a problem [inaudible 00:06:48].” It was our people, my people, our people, that helped her out, and then she blamed me for it. She blamed me, and it was our people that helped her. I don’t get it. How did you put her there? How did you put… How’s John James doing? Good? That’s good. Oh, he’s… I didn’t even know he was here. John. Wow, is that nice? Wow. I didn’t even know. See, I’m thinking about you and I don’t even know you’re here, John. I picked him out of a group of people they all had loaded up with money. John had money, he’s successful. Where he was really successful is in the military. He could pilot a helicopter better than anybody, I hear. And I said, “Who the hell is that guy?” It’s true. I saw John. I saw John. That’s in honor of John.
No, no, no. Here’s what happened, real quick. I saw John. I saw four people, a different position… He’s running for a different thing. He did great, by the way, but I saw four rich guys. And I saw John and I said, “Go back.” The world’s greatest invention. Not television, TiVo, because without TiVo, television is useless. So I say, “Who is that?” I don’t know, I think his name’s John James. I said, “Do me a favor. Go back.” Now, the other guys had a lot of money. They were spending a lot of money. I think four guys, four guys… I said, “That guy… I’m pretty good at this stuff. That guy can be a star.”
I called him. I spoke to him. I endorsed him. The four rich guys will never talk to me again, but that’s okay. They were [gonezo 00:08:48]. That was the end of them. And he ran a phenomenal race. And now I’m hearing, John, that you’re actually leading. He’s running against the guy, Peters. Think of it. John James is running against a Senator, US Senator, that nobody has ever heard of before, even in Washington. Peters. I said, “Who the hell is Peters?” He’s a Senator from Michigan. Nobody’s ever heard of him. I’ll tell you what. If one thing comes out of this small group of thousands of people, vote for John James.
He’s a great guy, but I’m going to introduce him in a second. If Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, they will dismantle your police departments, dissolve our borders, indoctrinate your children, and destroy the suburbs. You know, they were talking about suburban women don’t like Donald Trump. I said, “I think they do. I think they do.” I got rid of a regulation that will destroy the suburbs. I got rid of it. I said, “Ben Carson, let’s do it, Ben,” and we did it. Nobody else would do it. And if Biden ever got in, if he ever came in, it would come back and you could forget about the suburbs. And one thing I know about suburban women… Well, I was supposed to do badly with women the last time, remember? At the end, they called it that night. They said, “Donald Trump…” At the beginning, they said, “No, he won’t win because he doesn’t do well with women.”
I said, “Really? Tell me about that.” And then… This guy goes, “only Rosie O’Donnell”. Who said that? You? What are you, a comedian or something? So they said, “Donald Trump, it will be a very short evening.” They were very happy about that, and then we started winning. We won Florida, we won Georgia. We won South Carolina and North Carolina. We ran all three. Then we won Michigan. We won Michigan. We won Wisconsin. You know, they were coming. We won Pennsylvania. Anyway, at the end of the evening, they were analyzing it. They said, “You know what? Donald Trump did great with women.” [inaudible 00:51:06]
And that’s going to happen again, because women, suburban or otherwise, they want security. They want security. They want safety. They want law and order. They have to have law and order, and we’re going to do great. And I love women, and I can’t help it. They’re the greatest. I love them much more than the men, much more than the men. So I’m saving suburbia. I’m getting your kids back to school. Get your kids back to school. You know, we won that big Supreme Court case against your governor, so what the hell happened? Why isn’t it open? It’s still not open. You know, we sued. We won the case. What are they appealing? She’s appealing the case. Hey Governor, let your state open. Get your kids back to school, Governor. Not a good governor. And you know what else? I’m also getting your husbands… They want to get back to work. They want to get back to work. We’re getting your husbands back to work, and everybody wants it.
And the cure can never be worse than the problem itself. And let me tell you, when she keeps everybody locked up like a prison, your drugs and alcohol and abuse and suicide, and so many things, so many bad things are happening. She’s got to get it back. And this goes for Pennsylvania. You have a Democrat. All Democrats… You have a Democrat governor. Goes for North Carolina. We’re doing great in both. We’re winning both of those states. You have a governor in each one, and you have a couple of others. Look at what’s going on in New York with Cuomo. It’s horrible. It’s like a ghost town, and the crime is way up. And California has to open up. California has to open up. I mean, what are you going to do? I see people today, store owners, they don’t know what to do. They’re going to be arrested if they open up their little small business. They can’t survive. It’s a horrible thing that’s going on. Get your states opened up. And this governor should get her state opened up.
The last administration nearly extinguished the US auto industry from the job… Killing it, almost. The job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, and I ended it. I stopped it. To their horrendous Korea trade deal, that was a Hillary Clinton special. Remember, she said, “We will produce 250,000 jobs if we sign this deal,” and she was right for South Korea. They produced the… They got them. You didn’t get them. To the outrageous fuel economy standards where they’re making it impossible to build a car in this country. It’s outrageous. We sued California. We sued a lot of people, because we can build a better car, a safer car, a more important car for a lot less money. Think of that. Better, better looking, safer, little heavier, for a little bit more fuel, a little bit more. You’re talking about a glass, a little bit more fuel. And that will take 10 and 15 and 20-year old versions off, you know, the gas guzzlers, out of the…
Overall, environmentally, it’ll be so good. And we’re suing California. Think of it, a better car, a safer car, and you’ll save $3,500 a car. And we actually have a lawsuit on this. We’re going to build better, cheaper, safer, and we actually have a lawsuit. I mean, it’s not even believable. Over a little glass of… Because the difference between an engine that works and doesn’t work is a half a glass of fuel, and we have plenty, as we’ve proven. We’re the number one in the world. We have plenty of gasoline. We have plenty of gasoline, and it would be great for your car business. And frankly, your car business, they ought to get in gear, because they’re so afraid of the environmentalists. You know, they’re so afraid. Oh, I don’t know. I mean, they’re willing to spend thousands more to build a car.
I say, fellas, are you sure? There are a couple of them that are very smart that like what I say. I’ll tell you who the smart ones are some day. I reversed each and every one of those Obama-Biden disasters, and now Biden wants to reinstate all of them. Everything that we’ve knocked out in terms of regulations that would take 20 years to build a highway, we have it down to 2 years. To get the approvals would take 20 years, even longer. We have it down to 2. I want to get it down to 1, and it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons. I want to get it down to 1. But you have to see what we’ve done is a miracle, and that’s one of the reasons it’s been so successful. I also ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with the brand new USMCA. And the USMCA is expected to create tens of thousands of auto jobs that include powerful productions to keep your auto lines going. Wait till you see what happens. It’s just kicking in right now, and one of the biggest beneficiaries will be a state named Michigan.
And when General Motors went bankrupt, Biden and Obama threw the workers of the Delphi corporation to the wolves. Anybody from Delphi here? Because somebody, if you’re here, you got to like Trump, because we’re working on getting their pensions taken care of, because they were taken advantage of. You know about that. I signed an order to restore the pensions and healthcare benefits promise to workers in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan. So they were treated very badly, and so were you. I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. I will not do it. Joe Biden’s made a corrupt bargain exchange for his party’s nomination. He has handed control of his party over to the rage-filled socialists, Marxists, and left-wing extremists. If Biden wins, the flag-burning radicals on the streets will be running your government, like in Portland. The anarchists, the Antifa. Hey, Antifa…
You ever notice, they never want to go after Antifa? Nobody wants to take on it. They all want to go after anybody, but they don’t want… And I keep saying, “Well, how are we doing with Antifa, the anarchists?” This Election Day, you must stop the anti-American radicals by delivering Joe Biden and the far left a thundering defeat. We have to make this… You have to get out there on Monday, Tuesday, Sunday, I don’t care, today. You have to get out there and vote. Most of you are going to vote because you believe in voting, like I do. I just left. I just voted two days ago. I voted. I went to a booth, and they actually asked me, “Sir, may I please have your identification?” But no, they’re right in doing it. I gave her a passport. “Sir, do you have additional identification?” [inaudible 00:57:53] Come on, what are you doing? You’re going to embarrass me here. This is crazy. No, she was great.
I mean, I’ll tell you what. There’s no cheating with that. You go to a place, they want identification, they want this. You fill out your form, they walk you over to a machine, you put it in. I mean, these ballots, it’s turning out to be exactly what I said. You see what’s going on. Who’s sending them? Where are they going? Who’s sending them back? Who’s signing them? Now they want to have unverified signature. One of the governors wants to have no signature at all, just send it back. What a horrible thing, especially since I see so… You know, I watched it so closely this time when I voted. It was so professional. You go in, and most of these people, the Red Wave, generally speaking, you go… If not Tuesday, Monday, whatever, how many people are going to vote? How many people?
How many people have already voted? All right, good. You’re sort of a late state. That’s good. That’s good. Pennsylvania’s a very… They all vote that last day, but they go. They want to go to a polling booth. You’re like that. Everybody, look. This is the most important election in the history of our country, or I wouldn’t be standing here like this. Everybody, you got to go out and vote. You got to go out and vote. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. You’ve seen that. He wants to send your jobs to China while his family rakes in millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party and other places. If Biden wins, China wins. And by the way, China will own the United States. You saw that clip up there. They will own it. China’s wonderful. There has never been anyone or anything or any country that has ripped us off like China. We will win, you will win, Michigan will win, and America will win. You got to go and vote.
So, we’re joined today by some great warriors. I introduced one, but I’ll introduce-
… some great warriors. I introduced one, but I’ll introduce him again, because he’s so important, and that’s John, but representatives Jack Bergman, John Moolenaar, Tim Walberg. They’re incredible. I’ll tell you what, they have been with me right from the beginning, right fellas? They like you, they like you. Michigan House Speaker, Lee Chatfield. Lee. Young guy, Lee. A young guy. RNC Chairwoman, who by the way, ran my Michigan campaign four years ago, Ronna McDaniel. She ran it so good that when we won, I said, “I have the person, the head of the Republican Party,” I said, “I want to get somebody.” I said, “You know what I’ll do? Get me the woman that won Michigan. What the hell is her name?” Her name’s Ronna. Good. She would call me, I’d come. I’d make a speech, I’d leave. Call me the next day.
“Sir, you have to come back. You have to come back. You have to come back.” I said, “Look, I’ll do it one more time.” Because Michigan, hadn’t been one in 36 years. I said, “Look, I’ll do it one more time. That’s it.” I came back. She said, “That’s it, sir. Don’t worry about it.” I left. Two days later, I get a one more phone call. “Sir, one more visit.” And we did. Do you know, Michigan was the last stop that I made. I made it in Grand Rapids, Michigan. It was one o’clock in the morning. Crooked Hillary had come in with Barack Hussein Obama. And they came in together with Bill Clinton actually and all of them. And it was unscheduled. Meaning they found out they had a problem, right? It was unscheduled. They got here at seven o’clock. They had 500 people. I got here at one o’clock in the morning. Started speaking at one in the morning in Grand Rapids. We had 32,000 people. True.
And remember, think of this, it was now election day. So it’s now election day. In fact, I got home, and our future first lady said to me, “Are you crazy?” You know, I get it. I got home at four in the morning, but Ronna did a fantastic job. Right? Congressmen are we doing okay? Are we winning here?. The great John James is going to win?
Michigan GOP chair Laura Cox is terrific. Thank you. Thank you. How are we doing Laura? Are we up? They said two points. That’s not enough. We’ve got to get a little more than that. They said two points today. The great Ted Nugent. Ted. Ted. Great, Ted. He’s the only one really dressed properly. Thank you, Ted, very good. Great job. We appreciate it Ted. The president of the Police Officers Association of Michigan, Jim Tignanelli. Jim. He’s like central casting. Jim, central casting.
Candidates for Congress. Some really good ones. Paul Young. Paul Young. Good, Paul. You’re doing well, I hear. Good, Paul. And the next US Senator, from the great state of Michigan, the legendary John Jay. I’ll tell you, he’s working so hard. Just keep working, John, keep working. We built the greatest economy in history, and now we are doing it again. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000 more than five times, again, think of this five times again, in all eight years under the last administration. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached their lowest levels, ever recorded. Think of that, what we had going and we had to close it up and now we’re opening it again to record.
Since April, we created a record 11. 4 million jobs. For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in United States history. That’s what we’ve done. It’s an amazing thing what we’ve done. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would completely eliminate US borders. They don’t want to have borders. Without a border, you don’t have a country. By implementing a nationwide catch and release. You catch a criminal, murderer, rapist and you release them into our country. And then he’s supposed to come back for a trial in two years.
And we had the argument during the debate. Did anybody see the debate the other night now? It was quite a debate. He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. My administration is finding the illegal immigrant and the criminals gang members, the MS-13 killers, and we are either putting them in jail or sending them back home. And their home has to take them. They didn’t used to take them. We invested $2.5 trillion into the US military. Much of it’s spent in Michigan and we have the finest, greatest equipment anywhere in the world. We are the envy of the world. Russia, China, there’s no country. We are the envy of the world. The best equipment to the world, all made in the USA.
We also pass VA choice and VA accountability. We killed the leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi and we took out the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, 150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. What a stupid deal. And the first call I get, if we win, we got to win, first call I get will be from Iran. They’re going to want to make a deal so badly, because their economy is in tatters. I recognize the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace in the middle East. A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. That’s what it is. Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln was a Republican.
Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, this state right here. And we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled. military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. Our military is now the strongest it’s ever been by far.
When I first came in, they told me, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” That’s a true story. And no president should ever hear that again. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed January 1st, lower drug prices, even more, and we will always protect patients with pre- existing conditions. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan. See, now Biden would do that, and he’d say for the great people of… How many times did he do that? Seven? Standing up for the great people of Iowa. “Sir, sir, it’s Michigan.” There’s no recovery from that, right? When you do that, you just walk off the stage, right? I always say the great Winston Churchill, he was a great orator, even if Winston Churchill did it, he would just walk off the stage. But he didn’t do that. But sleepy Joe does it a lot. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your co-workers. Don’t let the radicals win. Get out and vote.
Most important election, I believe. And I never thought I’d say this, because of what happened four years ago, this is the most important election in the history of our country. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all. We’ve got a long way, from Midland to Mackinaw, from Pontiac to Battle Creek, great things, and from Detroit to right here in Lansing, we stand on the shoulders of Michigan patriots, who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. Think of that. So much, so much has been done in Michigan. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg revolutionized entire industries. Think of that.
Michigan gave us Motown, the Mustang and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest, the American Midwest. We got it all. I think I got every single vote in the America, I like the Midwest. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. That’s true. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, 401ks, keep them nice and hot. I don’t want to see you throw them out. These things aren’t worth anything. Your 401ks are just about at an all-time high. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you Michigan, go out and vote. Go out and vote.
Thank you very much. Hello. Oh wow. We tried to come in here very low-key. We wanted to make a low key appearance. Did anybody notice the helicopter flying a little low and real slow? No? Greatest pilots in the world. Greatest equipment in the world. That’s what we have greatest equipment in the world, but the greatest pilots, nobody can do what our pilots can do. Right, Mike? Hello, Pennsylvania. Hello, Pennsylvania. Eight days from now. Can you believe it? Eight days. Started off four years ago. Remember our meetings and it was a love fest right from the beginning, wasn’t it? And now it’s more so. You know what? It’s more so than it was four years ago. And they’re going to be finding that out very soon. They’re going to be finding it out. You know, I have the ratings right over here.
Poll numbers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Joe Biden, sleepy Joe Biden said a little while ago, he was in a lid. You know what a lid is, a garbage can. They put the lid on it, they put the lid… And he saw, we had two of these today, they were fantastic. Different parts of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And we had two of them, ann sleepy Joe was down there and they said, “You got to get out of this basement.” So he traveled from Delaware to a little tiny corner of Pennsylvania, right next to Delaware. And he made a speech. And he said that he doesn’t do these kind of rallies, because of COVID. No, he doesn’t do them because nobody shows up. That’s why. Nobody shows up.
COVID, COVID, COVID. That’s all they talk about the fake news. COVID, COVID, COVID. That’s all they talk about what progress we’ve made on it too. We understand it. We know we have to protect our seniors, especially when they have heart, when they have diabetes problems and we are protecting them. We have best testing in the world. That’s why we show so many cases, because we do more testing than anybody else, but we’re doing great. And ooh, excuse me. Here I am. I’m here for you.
I didn’t feel so good one day. One day I didn’t feel exactly great, Mike, a great Congressman, but I didn’t feel exactly great. And I said, “What’s the story, doc, sir?”
“You’ve tested positive.” I said, “Positive for what, doc, tell me.” And I say this, a president, If you’re doing your job, you can’t stay in a basement of the White House. You can’t stay in a basement. You can’t stay in a beautiful bedroom upstairs. You can’t do that. You got to do your job. And I’d have many days, I’d say, “I’ve met a lot of people today. There’s got to be something going.” But one day they came back and these doctors were so great. And there were a lot of them. There’s so many doctors. When you’re president, there’s so many doctors and I had 12 doctors, can you believe it? I’ve never had 12. I’ve had one or two, but I’ve never had 12. And each one was a specialist in different parts of the body. And they would grab my body and I hated it. I hated it.
“Sir, he tested positive.” Like 15 minutes later, “How’s Baron doing?” “Sir, it’s gone.” So you have to get back to school. We have to get back to school, Pennsylvania. You know, you have a governor who doesn’t want us to do anything in Pennsylvania, because did you see the poll just came out? We’re up two and another one, we’re up four. Because you watch, I have a whole list of the polls that just came out. But eight days from now, we’re going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And we’re going to win four more years in our great White House.
Just a few hours from now, the Senate will vote to confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court. That was a good choice. Wasn’t it? I’ve never seen anything. I’m glad she’s not running for President. I’d much rather go against sleepy Joe, much easier. No, she’s fantastic. A fantastic person, fantastic woman, a great student. Her professor, her great professor at Notre Dame said, and he’s been teaching a long time, a lot of great legal minds he’s taught, he said, she’s the single greatest student he’s ever had. That was good enough for me. That was it. Highly respected person. He’s a highly respected man. He said, “Sir, she’s the greatest student I’ve ever had.” Judge Barrett is one of our nation’s most brilliant legal minds. She’ll defend our rights, our liberties and our God given freedoms. And you saw that.
And we were all watching in great amusement as she was so- called grilled by the opposition. That was easy, right? That was easy. That was like one of our great football teams from the area, plenty of them, playing a high school football team. That was really something. Judge Barrett will be the third Supreme Court Justice along with almost 300, right around the number, by the time we end the first term, I’ll have 300, maybe a little more, maybe a little less, federal judges that we’ve confirmed to uphold our laws and our constitution. And part of that was that Barack Hussein Obama allowed me to have 142. We started with 142 empties. I don’t think anybody’s ever had one. You don’t do that. But he left me 142. Couldn’t get them confirmed.
To this day, Joe Biden refuses to release his list of names. You know, it’s more than just the packing the court. He’s got to say who is he going to put on, because we can’t have radical left justices that are going to destroy our nation. And we will be very, very careful as to who we choose. You know, I left a list of 45. I had a list of 25 and now I added 20 names, all top scholars, top, top scholars. And Amy was one of them. I took Amy off. And the fact is you have no idea. A lot of people say I won because of the Supreme Court, because they didn’t know who I’d pick, and I gave a list, and I said, “I’ll pick somebody like this.” And then they said, “That’s not good enough. You got to pick somebody in that list.” So ultimately it’s a list of 25, all great scholars, all people that believe in something known as the Constitution, if that’s okay.
I don’t think his list will. And they say that that was a big part of the reason that we won the election four years ago. And he has to do the same thing. He’s got to not only agree to not pack the court, or you can’t put them on, it would be terrible, terrible for our nation. Even Justice Ginsburg said, “You can’t do that.” Nine is the right number. We have a Senate. We have a House, a lot of people. Nine is the right number. Nine great people, that’s the right number. But he’s got to agree to not pack the court. But he’s got to agree to give us a list of five or 10 or 20 or 30 or 40. Got to have people to pick from. And if you don’t have that list, you can’t vote for him.
And you can’t vote for him for another reason, because during the debate, I’m sure nobody watched the debate. Did anybody watch the debate? The last question was like Perry Mason, was just like Perry Mason. It was at the end. He was doing great. This guy was doing so wonderful. Not really. Meaning he was getting through. And then the last one I said, “So you don’t want oil, Joe?” “Well yes, we want to get ourself off of oil.” And how about Kristen? Who I thought treated me good. I really did. I thought she, compared to Chris Wallace, much better, right? Chris Wallace, I was fighting two people. But no, I thought she treated us good. And frankly, she went in and she said, “Why did you say that?” To him, and that’s when he really blew it.
So basically he’s not going to allow you to frack. And you have a million jobs and energy jobs, probably more than that. And it’s a big part of our nation what you do. People don’t realize that about Pennsylvania, but fracking is a very big deal. Who are you pointing to? Oh. Oh. Oh. Look at that. Oh boy. The coal miners, right? The coal miners. Dig must dig. Dig we must. Clean coal. I don’t call it coal. I call it clean coal. They can do more with coal now. Thank you very much. Remember when Hillary, she said we will stop all coal miners. We will never dig coal again. And then four weeks later, she ended up in West Virginia. That did not work out well for her. That was not good. Remember, she was trying to explain that she was just kidding. Just like he’s doing, just like sleepy Joe’s doing. He was just kidding. But he’s down. We just had a poll come out. We’re plus two now, you know. But we should be a lot more than that. I’m not happy with plus two. I don’t like plus two. It’s an honor. You do a great job. Dig we must. Dig we must. And we brought it back. We’re selling now coal to Vietnam and many, many places from… Are you coal miners from Pennsylvania? Good. Good. That’s good. Well, you’re not going to be voting for Joe Biden, that I can tell you. Not like he’s a sophisticated environmentalist. He was told to do this.
Our opponents agenda is one of doom and gloom and depression, decline and despair. Our agenda is one of unlimited optimism. We want to be optimistic. Remember during the debate, he said, “It will be a dark winter.” No, it’s going to be a beautiful winter. It’s going to be a beautiful spring. Okay? Our country’s coming back stronger than anybody would have thought. And you have to get your governor to open up your state, what this guy is doing. You know, we had one site where we had a site, it was a big site, beautiful site, and he made sure that they didn’t do it. We had to go around scouting out for sites on our first, this is my third one, all in Pennsylvania. But this governor, but we’re going to remember it.
But the problem is how is he going to be the one when he tries to play games with sites that counts ballots, right? He counts ballots. It’s the governor. And then they sued us because they didn’t want to have poll watchers. You know what a poll watcher is? They watch you count the votes. What’s wrong with that if you’re doing it straight? So we’re in court and we had a Pennsylvania judge who said, “Oh, you shouldn’t have poll watchers.” Can you believe that? We actually lost the first case, but we’ll go up and we’ll end up in the Supreme Court.
The other thing they want to be able to drag out the election long beyond the third. Well, in all fairness, this is a very important place, right? And we can’t drag it out. We don’t want to drag out any longer. So we are in lots of court having to do with this and having to do with many states, about five of them. And so far, we’ve had a lot of good victories. They will continue because we’re not going to let this election be taken away from us. That’s the only way they’re going to win it. We’re not going to let them have it.
For the last half century, 47 years, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in ridiculous, endless foreign wars, countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. Now Joe Biden is trying to ban fracking and deliver an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania’s energy sector. You can’t allow this to happen. But here’s the thing. For a year, I watched him saying, “There will be no fracking,” right? We saw with the Democrats, right? The radical left Democrats. They’re all screaming, “No fracking.” Every one of them, they couldn’t scream loud enough. And he gets the nomination because Elizabeth Warren Pocahontas refused to get out. No, had she gotten out, then crazy Bernie would have been our opponent. But I think I like Joe better because there’s no energy. I liked him. No. Bernie had a little energy, small base, lots of energy.
And we had a lot of his people. You know, a lot of them with crooked Hillary, Bernie. I won’t use it because they have very young people here. He gets taken advantage of by Hillary. And then he gets taken advantage of by the Democrats the last time, with mostly Elizabeth Warren and the others. They ganged up on him. And he goes back and he goes into the Senate. I think he’s the greatest loser. He’s a really good, he’s a good loser. He’s a good sport. Crazy Bernie. And in the last week’s debate, Joe Biden confirmed his plan to abolish the entire U.S. oil industry. That’s right. And that’s why Kristen said, “Why are you doing this?” Because she’s on his side, you know, because that’s NBC owned by Concast, C-O-N, not C-O-M, C-O-N. So she’s on his side. She’s saying, “Why are you doing this?”
If you really look, it’s almost pleading, “Sir, why are you doing this?” And I’m saying, just be quiet, Kristen. No, that’s what happens. That’s right. That’s what happened to Perry Mason. Remember, the guy was always great, great, great. Then at the end, I did it. I did it. That was sleepy Joe. That’s happened. You don’t need a President like that. That means no fracking, no natural gas, no coal, no jobs, no energy, no Pennsylvania families being well taken care of. Fracking is saving Pennsylvania families $2,500 a year, at least. And it’s saving families all over the country. We are energy independent and you’re a big part of it. And they want to end that. They want to go to wind. Do you love the wind? Nice windmill right alongside of your house. Your house is now worthless. You know, when those windmills go up and they’re near your house, I know a lot about wind, it cost many, many, many times the energy that we’re talking about, many, many times, like 32 cents versus 3 cents, whether it’s natural gas or other things, but many, many times.
But you put up a windmill, if you want to see a bird graveyard, go under a windmill sometime. It kills your birds. Got a lot of problems. Okay? And it needs subsidy, massive subsidy. You don’t want to be giving subsidy to energy when there’s no reason to do it. So he wants wind and he wants solar. I like solar too, but it still isn’t developed. And solar’s not going to power your big, powerful plants, which we have to have in order to compete and beat the rest of the world. It’s just not going to do it and neither is wind. And neither is wind. He will eradicate Pennsylvania energy production and send your state into a crippling depression. That’s what it’s going to be because energy is such a big… People just don’t know that, Mike, about Pennsylvania. It’s a big, big energy state. Be amazed.
You know, it’s funny, Texas, so he’s against oil, he’s against guns, second amendment, and he’s against God. And then they say, President Trump is four points up in Texas. And the governor calls me from Texas, great guy, Greg, he said, “Sir, that’s not true. You’re up a lot,” but they don’t say that. But think of it. You’re against oil. We’re in Texas. You’re against oil. You’re against God. You’re against guns in Texas, guns in Texas. Trump is up four points. It’s a very close race. No, no same thing here because you have the same thing. And you could really say the same thing almost to a little bit lesser extent, but the Texas was just amazing. So that’s why I said at the end, Texas and Pennsylvania, I hope you’re looking and I hope you’re listening. And that goes for Ohio. And it goes for Oklahoma. And it goes for a lot of other places.
So, you know, we had polls because the fake news is always giving fake numbers. They’re called, they’re really called suppression, suppression polls. So here they are, all brand new. Rasmussen, have you ever of Rasmussen? Very highly regarded poll. So over there we were at 53 and 52, that means it’s hard to lose you when you’re at 53 or 52. So Rasmussen, and that’s national. That’s not what I’m doing. I go to places, like Hillary used to campaign in California when it doesn’t matter. Although if I were California, I’d vote for Trump because the place is going to hell, I would vote for Trump. I would vote for Trump. Taxes are too high. Crime is too high.
New York, taxes are too high. People are fleeing. Crime is too high. I put out vote for Trump. Remember? African-American, I said the same thing, vote for Trump. What the hell do you have to lose? That was last election. Now we are doing so incredibly well with the African American, the black community, and the Hispanic community. No, it’s unbelievable. They get it. Because we did criminal justice reform. We did prison reform. We did the historically black colleges and universities. What we’ve done, opportunity zones with the great Tim Scott, Senator from South Carolina, we’ve done so much. And now the black community is strong with us. We had a poll today at 40. 40. Nobody knows what that means. Nobody knows what that means. That’s a number that nobody’s heard of with respect to the Republican. We should be much higher than that.
Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who wiped out your steel mills, closed down your factories, killed your coal jobs, outsourced your industries and supported every terrible and disastrous trade deal. For more than 47 years, he was a cheerleader for NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made. By the way, USMCA just kicked in. It’s great. USMCA is a great. It just kicked in. Your companies aren’t going to be moving to Mexico or Canada anymore. That I can tell you. Biden enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, decimating your manufacturing-
The World Trade Organization, decimating your manufacturing and enriching China at your expense. And you were really one of the biggest victims. This state, you lost 50% of your manufacturing jobs after Biden’s NAFTA and China disasters. They were disasters. He signed it along with other people, but he was one of the people that pushed it. Decade after decade, vote after vote, sleepy Joe Biden has betrayed Pennsylvania, you know that. He repeatedly tried to cut social security and Medicare, you didn’t know that until a week ago when we started showing you the clips. And that was, Bernie Sanders is the one that exposed him on that. Now, after years of economic treachery, he wants to ban fracking and he’s going to.
And what about his running mate? His wonderful running mate. They asked her about fracking. She’s only said about 300 times, there will never be fracking. Now she’s said, “No, Joe wants it.” But she said it was the Harris-Biden administration. That’s the first time I’ve ever heard of that one. She came first. No, she’s nothing special. She never was. I can’t believe she was picked actually. Nobody treated him worse than her. Plus she was a disaster. Her poll numbers were going so bad, she left before Iowa, right before the vote. Her poll, she started off at 12 and then she went to 10, went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two, went to one, went to zero. Then she said, “I think I’m going to get out of the race.” And she treated him so badly, what she called him and everything else. And then he said, “I’d like to announce that I’m going to pick Kamala to be my running mate.” You can have them both.
You don’t have to take my word. We have Joe on tape. Now I only do this when a location is very important to me, because this thing costs a fortune putting up this tape, okay? But look at this crowd, so you can watch what Joe says. Go ahead, please roll the video.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
When you ran for president and when Barack Obama ran for president, you both said you would renegotiate NAFTA. You didn’t.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people who are making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it. George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it. Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
How exactly are you going to negotiate then? What magic wand do you have?
A rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China but the United States and the rest of the world. The rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation. And we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, they are going to beat us is bizarre. China is going to eat our lunch, c’mon man. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which he supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
Today we’re finally ending the NAFTA nightmare and signing into law the brand new US, Mexico, Canada Agreement. Very special.
Listen, it’s hard to overstate the importance of the USMCA. This is the single biggest bi-partisan legislative victory for this president and this administration. It is a huge deal.
Wage growth is better than it has been since 2009. That means it is better than it has been for seven out of eight of the years that Obama was president.
The new USMCA has powerful protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs. Since the election, we’ve created 41,000 brand new motor vehicle and parts jobs.
But does he deserve some credit for that? It’s better, the USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA.
I never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
Show the tape, put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated.
I guarantee we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
What about, say, stopping fracking and stopping pipeline infrastructure?
Yes, no pipeline. Exactly.
They want to do the same thing I want to do. They want to phase out fossil fuels and we’re going to phase out fossil fuels.
There’s no question, I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question.
Would he close down the oil industry?
By the way, I would transition from the oil industry, yes.
[crosstalk 00:22:00] Oh, a transition. In terms of business, that’s the biggest industry, because basically what he says, he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that, Texas? Will you remember that, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma? So you never heard me say that, that I could tell you. Now isn’t that great? It’s a very expensive deal, but it saves me a lot of work because there’s nothing does it better than that, right? A vote for Biden is a vote to offshore your jobs, ban fracking and deliver economic ruin to Pennsylvania and to your families. In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt far left political establishment. And you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first.
With your vote, we will continue to fight for American workers, lower drug prices. You know what we’re doing on drug prices? The first year in 52 years where drug prices came down, prescription drugs last year, but we’re doing favored nations so we pay the lowest in the world. Right now, we pay the highest and the drug companies don’t like me too much, I can tell you that. They’re spending more on advertising than sleepy Joe. Support our police protect our second amendment, which is under siege. Defend our borders, maintain energy independence, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA, right? We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, a safe vaccine that quickly ends the pandemic and we’re rounding the turn. They hate it when I say it. With or without we have the vaccine, it’s going to be great.
We have numerous companies, all great ones, but we’re rounding that turn anyway, we’re rounding the turn. We understand the disease. We closed it up. The greatest economy in history, we closed it up. We saved 2 million lives. You remember it was going to be 2.2 million lives. We saved 2 million lives and we’re rounding the turn. Normal life, that’s what we want. Normal life will fully resume. We’ll never forget what China did to this country and what China did to the world. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. And that’s where we’re heading. If you look at the job numbers, automobile numbers, if you’re looking at housing, I gave working families record setting tax cuts. And in my second term, I will cut middle-class taxes even further. I gave you the largest tax cut, the largest tax cut in history. This is the craziest campaign, right? So all my life I watched politicians running. They always say, we are going to cut your taxes, right? We are going to cut your tax.
I got a guy running now who’s sort of shot. He goes, we will raise your taxes. I said, what the hell? I said, did he just say that? Yeah, he’s going to give you the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, including regulations and all the other stuff, which made it so good for us. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery or a Biden super depression. And that’s what you’re going to have. You’re going to have a depression, if you go with this guy. It’s a choice between a boom and a locked down. He wants to lock down your country. You’re already locked down with your governor. Wolf, Governor Wolf. There’s a beauty for you.
Sure, Governor, we trust you to count our ballots, Governor. We trust you. And it’s a choice between the rule of the people or the rule of the corrupt political class. If Joe Biden and the Democrat socialists, and that’s where you’re heading. And I always said, this country will never be a socialist country, never, ever. But if Joe Biden and his Democrat socialists are elected, they will delay the vaccine, delay the therapies, prolong the pandemic, close your schools. They’re already closed. Open them up, open up those schools and shut down our economy. And we’re coming back with numbers like nobody has ever seen before.
I tell this last week, the end of last week, the Atlanta fed projected GDP for the third quarter, just, it’s going to be announced just before November 3rd of 35%, nothing ever even close. I think your record is 8%, 8%, 9%. 35% and he wants to close it down, not a good idea, Joe. Biden says he has a plan for the virus and he doesn’t. He just copied. You see what he did. He copied our plans. It’s the same plan. He copied our plan. Everything he’s proposed, my administration has already done, including mass production of rapid tests and PP, we’ve done.
And what we’ve done with the ventilators is incredible because we weren’t prepared with ventilators. Our hospitals didn’t have them. Our governments didn’t have them. My federal government did. We went into a production of ventilators, the likes of which they’ve never seen anything like it since the end of World War II. Biden doesn’t know how to defeat a pandemic. His own chief of staff said that when he managed the H1N1, which he always reverses. And of those under the age of 50 recover and most recovered very quickly. But Biden wants to keep them locked down in their homes while letting rioters and looters run wild. In Pennsylvania, you can’t go to church. You can’t go to restaurants, you can’t do anything, right? But if you want to have a nice little riot, if you want to have a protest, that’s why we call everything a friendly protest. That way we’re allowed to be.
Think of it. You can’t go to church, but if you want to burn down Center City, we have no problem with it. I’ll tell you, bringing our country back. But if you think it’s easy with these people we have to deal with? The Biden lockdown would crush America, and my plan will crush the virus. And we’re going to have a boom like you’ve never seen before. Like you’ve never seen before.
When the China virus arrived, we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We banned all sorts of things. Everything we could ban. We airlifted medical supplies, built hospitals from scratch. Look what we did in New York, the convention center, 2,800 beds that we put in the ship. Unfortunately, Governor Cuomo barely used it. If he would have used it for our great seniors, he wouldn’t have caused the death of 11,000 people, seniors and 40,000 people overall. Slash red tape, pioneered groundbreaking therapies, reduced the fatality rate 85%. Think of that. Think of it. I mean, look at Regeneron for me. And by the way, we’re going to make Regeneron available to anybody that feels they want it, need it. Same as I had. Free. Free.
And the vaccines that are being produced, it’s not your fault. It’s China’s fault. We’re not forgetting. And the vaccine is going to be free. It’s going to be distributed free to everybody. We will deliver 100 million doses of a safe vaccine before the end of the year. It may be quite a bit sooner than that. Seniors will be the first in line for the vaccine and our frontline workers too. I will break through every obstacle, which we’ve already done, use every resource and I will not rest until we eradicate this disease that should have never come to our shores or to the shores of the rest of the world. It should have never come. Never forget. We will vanquish the virus and we will emerge better, stronger and more unified than ever before.
If Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, they will raise your taxes to a level that you’ve never seen before. Bury you in regulations, dismantle your police departments, dissolve our borders. They don’t want borders. They want open borders. Even said, maybe we’ll take down the wall, which is now almost complete. You know, the wall is almost complete. Just what the border patrol … I said, give me the best. Give me your specs. I said, let me use concrete plank. I want to use concrete plank. It’s quick and it’s cheap. They said, Sir, we can’t do that. We need steel, concrete and then rebar. I said, that’s great. We gave them everything they wanted. We’re now beyond 400 miles and it will be finished very soon.
It’s amazing. It used to be all about the wall. They never thought I’d get it built. It used to be all about the wall because we had the Democrats would do anything, not to have … Remember all the work and every day front page, the wall will not happen. It will not happen. Now that it’s almost finished and you don’t hear about the wall anymore, right? They don’t talk about … The fake news media doesn’t talk about it. Look at how many there are over there too. That’s a lot of valuable equipment. That’s a lot of valuable equipment. And Mexico is paying for the wall, by the way, in case you had any question, that’s the other thing. So now they know it’s built, then they said, but Mexico will not be paying for. I said, no, no. Mexico is paying.
Then they said, but Mexico will not be paying. I said, “No, no. Mexico is paying for the wall, okay.” But they’ll figure that out very soon. They’ll confiscate your guns, terminate religious liberty and destroy the suburbs. Women of the suburbs, you must love me, I can tell you. I’m saving you something. I’m saving, I got rid of the regulation that was going to destroy your suburbs, unless you like crime, which you don’t like, right? They were doing a new thing, about three, four weeks ago. They said, ” Suburban women don’t like Trump. He’s losing suburban.” I said, “Why?” Wait. But that’s only because I know two things about suburban women. They don’t want a regulation that is brutal, that’s going to build low-income housing next to their house. Okay. They don’t want that. A project, we call it a project and they don’t want crime in the suburbs.
Antifa says, that’s the next place they want to head. They’re not heading to the suburbs. You know what? As soon as I say those words, they want law, order. They want safety. They want to have their families be safe. Then they say about, I think we’re going to do very well with suburban women. We have a lot of suburban women, right here. We got rid of a regulation and Ben Carson, a great guy, said, “Well, sir, you know, it’d be a lot easier if we just amended it, made it a little less onerous. It’s horrible. It’s horrible with your zoning, and they’ve changed his zoning and you can do whatever you want and ruin everything.” I said, “No, Ben, let’s terminate it.
“Well, but if we do, it’ll be easier.” “No, Ben let’s terminate it. Let’s just terminate it.” I said, “Do it.” He said, “That’s a tough one, but we’ll do it” We terminated it. It’s gone. Now. If Sleepy Joe comes back, you know who’s going to be a judge of it? Cory Booker’s going to be a judge. Corey Booker, the mayor of, the former mayor of Newark, New Jersey, who never lived in Newark. I don’t know how he got away with that one, Mike. Never lived there. They will send to you, cancel you and indoctrinate your children with anti- American lies. But we don’t let that. We don’t let that happen. You saw that two weeks ago. Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party’s nomination.
He has handed control of his party over to the rage-filled socialists, Marxists, and left-wing extremists. Right? Because Joe doesn’t have a clue. Let’s not kid ourselves. Joe, how you doing, Joe? Not well. Oh, I got to tell you, wait, wait, wait. The poll’s right? Winning 52% and 53%, not bad, right? That’s national. That’s almost, as crazy as it is, it doesn’t mean anything. Nevada, Trump is up by two. Texas, trump is up by four, much more than four. Remember guns, oil and God, I’m on their side. He’s on the other side. Let me ask you, maybe even more so that if a candidate is running in Texas and he said we are against oil, I think that’s it. Right? But, now add guns to it and now add religion. That’s what they’re doing.
They’re closing your churches. Your churches are all closed. It’s terrible. It really is terrible. Ohio. We’re up big. Ohio, the great state of Iowa. We have great people in Ohio. Jim Jordan, do we like Jim Jordan everyone? NCAA wrestling, champ. People don’t know that about Jim. You know about Jim. NCAA wrestling, real tough guy and a great guy. Florida, we’re up four. Just came out. Just came out. Rasmussen. Georgia, we’re up very nicely. Four or five, but we’re really up much more than that. Don’t forget if we’re up four, add another four or five, six, seven to it.. I’m not sure I’m proud of it, but people don’t want to talk about it. Right? They don’t want to talk, but they vote. They vote. Arizona. We’re up in Arizona. We’re up in Iowa. We’re up big in Montana. Well, Montana, we’re up really big. We’re up in Utah and we’re up 22 points in West Virginia, West Virginia.
But you don’t hear this when you watch, because there’s suppression. They want to give you a negative stuff. There’s suppression. They’re very dishonest people, but that’s okay. They were dishonest last time too. Worst sexually, right? Like you got to get out, you got to get out and vote. We got to put this thing away. We win Pennsylvania, we win the whole ballgame. We win the ballgame. You’re known as a late voting state, right? Very late, which is a good thing. Who is going to vote soon? Who is going to vote on November 3rd. One of the few, right? Yeah. You don’t like a ballot sent out and then thrown into a garbage. You’re known for it. It’s called smart people. Who is going to vote for Sleepy Joe Biden? Only if you have the courage. Only if you have the courage to raise your hand. Please don’t do it. Who is going to vote for President Trump?
All right. Now we’re going to have a big … They call it the great red wave and they’re waiting for it. All these ballots came pouring in. These crazy ballots are pouring in from all over. They send the ballots out. Nobody knows who’s sending them, who’s receiving them, who’s signing them. You know, they want to have a thing in Nevada where you don’t have to prove signature, minor things like that. Right? But they’re going to have a wave, and they’re all saying about the red wave, but I think the great red wave is going to be much bigger than people have any understanding about, I think.
But, you hear those numbers. You don’t hear those numbers, when you watch the fake news. It’s depression. They want to make you nice and depressed. You take your wife or husband, you say, “I really like the president, but he can’t win because I listen to fake CNN or I listen to Fox. Fox, by the way, Fox has the worst polls of all of them. They had four years ago … They have the worst. I said, “They have the worst.” You hear that, John Roberts, who I like a lot. They have the worst … He’s right there. Hi John. They have the worst pollster of anybody. Fox is terrible. They got it so wrong last time. But, you listen to these polls and you say, “Let’s go to dinner, darling,” and then we’ll go home, and sadly we’ll watch television. But you know what happened four years ago? Everyone said, “No, we’re not going to dinner. We’re going to vote.” Right?
Hillary, with her statement about the Deplorable, right? The Deplorable. Well, the Deplorable decided to vote. That was incredible. Was that incredible when said that? Who would have thought that was so bad? It was the pros. She actually said a worse word than that, right? The Irredeemables. Remember, she said the Deplorable and the Irredeemables. I thought Irredeemable was worse than a deplorable. Right? But it didn’t catch on. The thing that caught on was deplorable. The next day, I was making a speech like this and it came out, it came out, we are deplorable. They came out by the millions. That shirt sold like crazy.
President Trump, President Trump, President Trump, President Trump, President Trump, President Trump.
The fake news, every time that happens, and now it’s happening with Biden because that’s a crime family, frankly. But every time that happens, where they say lock her up, lock him, they always blame me, and I have nothing to do with it. I’d mentioned the name and the place goes crazy. They said, “You incited that.” I said, “I didn’t even talk about it.” You see that fake show last night, 60 minutes? I did a good job. That was a very hostile attack by a woman that do nothing. If Biden wins, the flag-burning radicals on the streets will be running your government. You know that. Look at Portland. We want to go into Portland. We did a great job. If you look at Seattle, we said, We’re going in,” and the night before they said, “Okay, we’re leaving now,” because we have to be asked in. The federal government has to be asked in.
Then we did a great job in Minnesota. Minneapolis, I mean, they should have told us to go there a week and a half early. It would have been nice. It would have saved a lot of destruction. Remember the CNN anchor, Velshi? He said, “We are here.” They don’t want to talk about riots because it’s bad for them. “We are here at a peaceful demonstration and behind him, right over, the entire city is burning down. Right? They had a fire that looked like Berlin on its worst day. The whole place was burning down, and then he said “The military has formed,” what was, it was a great group of people. You saw that, the National Guard. It was one, two, three. All of a sudden they started. One line, two lines, and they just marched forward, that tear gas.
Didn’t Velshi get hit on the knee with tear gas, and he went down? They said, “He’s down.” Velshi, I don’t even know who the hell Velshi is. I just remember, did a little shave job with his head. I was thinking about doing it. I was going to do a little bit, but I decided against it. I didn’t want to go down 25 points in the poll. Ali Velshi, he got hit on the knee with tear gas, right, and he went down. He was not the bravest guy, but I’ll never forget the scene of him saying, “This is a friendly protest,” and behind, I’m telling you, I never saw a fire like that. It was the craziest thing, but we did a great job. We sent him the National Guard and the National Guard, it was over in what, a half hour, max?
They just started walking. World’s most expensive uniforms. Their helmet costs, like a giant computer. They just, and there was something very nice about it after watching what went on for a week and a half, but all of it, we could solve it all. All they have to do is ask us. The federal government is waiting and it’s always run by Democrats. New York problem run by Democrats, Chicago problem. How do you like her as a mayor? Isn’t she wonderful? Run by Democrats, all run by Democrats. This election day, the people of Pennsylvania need to defy the corrupt media, the big tech machines, and you look at what they’re doing. They’re protecting. They won’t write anything negative about a man who is corrupt. They won’t write. There is nothing they will allow to go in and the forces trying to keep you down and hold you back, it’s the most incredible thing going to give great credit to the New York Post to endorse me today, by the way.
Because, they’re the only one with the courage to do it, and they’re out there. It’s great, what they’re doing. You must stop the anti-American radicals from doing what they’re doing. You can’t let the Democrats and Joe Biden have a far- left victory. This has to be a thundering defeat. Not just a defeat. It has to be a rebuke, a rebuke of socialism and as corrupt as he is, and all the things … His son is like a vacuum cleaner. “Let me follow you into China, Dad. Dad, I’m going to be managing one and a half billion dollars.” “Have you ever done it before, son?” “No, I haven’t Dad. I have no idea.” They’ve never done a deal like that. China doesn’t do that. They will give other people money to manage. But, the scary part is that remember, the big guy gets 10%, right?
The big guy, he’s the big guy. I don’t think he’s the big guy. The big guy gets 10%. The big one with China, was they wanted $10 million a year for introductory purposes. $10 million year. I wonder what that was all about. That sounds like a reasonable number. Then Ukraine, 183,000 a month to sit on a board of an energy company with a questionable reputation. Sit on the board, and he has absolutely no knowledge of energy. This young person sitting right here, very young, knows more about energy than Where’s Hunter. I call Hunter, his real first name is Where. Where’s Hunter? Remember we made the t-shirt.
Joe wants to send your jobs to China, while his family rakes in millions and millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party. Oh, they want him to win. Can you imagine, I’m charging them billions of dollars in tariffs. Joe said he would take those tariffs off of [inaudible 00:44:45] . Billions, I gave 28 billion to the farmers in Iowa, Nebraska, all of the farmers because they were targeted, and Joe wants to take the tariffs off. I gave him … Remember, 25% dumped steel that were killing our steel companies. 25%. Our steel companies had been doing great now. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, America wins. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician, if that’s okay.
I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, is because I was elected to fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought for you before. You think this is fun? I had our good life before this. I had a nice, beautiful … I could go anywhere. I could do anything.
We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you very much. That’s a chant, they say they’ve never, ever heard in politics. I won’t repeat the chat because I don’t want to cry. I’ll start crying. Now, they’ll say. “President Trump broke down in tears today.” We are joined today by a couple of warriors, real warriors and great people. These are people that have been with me day and night fighting this movement, this horrible left, radical, left movement. Congressman John Joyce, Congressman GT Thompson, great people and a man who is so popular. He was with me the other night, different location. It was about 30 degrees out and he refused to put on a jacket. By the end of the evening. I think he regretted it, but he’s never say, he’s a powerful guy. He’s a great guy. He loves everybody, and they love him. Mike Kelly, Congressman Kelly. Right?
As well as state Senator Judy Ward. Thank you, Judy. Thank you. Thank you, very much. Thank you, Judy. Great job, you’re doing. We built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. Make America great again, again, right? Remember? Make America great again, again. We did it and now we’ve got to do it again and it’s happening much faster than anybody could have believed. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years under the last administration. That’s really something, right? Did you see the crowd that President Obama had today? Nobody, nobody showed up. I thought they’d have a little crowd. Didn’t quite have a crowd like this. No, nobody showed up. They said, “He’s going to start campaigning.” I said, Who?” “Barack Hussein Obama.” I said, “Oh, I said, is that good or bad?” Because, he campaigned harder than Hillary the last time. How did that work out? It didn’t work out. But, he went to a few locations. He’s averaging about 25 people. He’s averaging very little. It’s disappointing. African-American unemploy-
He’s averaging very little. It’s disappointing. African-American unemployment, Hispanic-American unemployment, Asian-American unemployment, people with diplomas from high school, without diplomas from high school, college diplomas, MIT, first in your class, everybody was employed. Women. Women had the best they’ve had in 71 years. All reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Since April, we created a record, never happened before, 11. 4 million jobs, just April. We achieved the most secure border because of the wall, largely.
Mexico has 27,000 troops at our border protecting it for us. I said, you got to do that. Good man, president of Mexico, good man. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would eliminate us borders by implementing nationwide catch and release. That’s where you catch a killer and you release them into our country. And we say, come back in four years. You have a court case and remember Joe at the debate, he said, they come back. They don’t come back. Only the ones with the extraordinarily low IQ come back. Nobody comes back. They don’t come back. We never took that one up.
But remember we had a little argument about it. He said, they come back. They don’t come back. Making every community a sanctuary city for violent criminals. We’re not going to do that. They want sanctuary cities for violent criminals. The Biden-Harris plan would also increase refugees 700% from the most dangerous places in the world. They pledged to terminate all national security travel bans. I have a travel ban. It was very tough. People didn’t like it. I said, no thank you. I don’t want people that want to come into our country and blow up our stores and our streets and our people.
And I put in a very strong travel ban and we won in court. We won at the United States Supreme Court. You don’t mind. We keep out radical Islamic terrorists. We keep them out. We invested $2.5 trillion in our US military, 2.5 trillion with a T. With a T. See, Joe would say, we invested $2.5 million. Said, no, it’s trillion. Oh, it is? Oh, I didn’t know. You know, the worst is when he constantly is saying that number one, he’s running for the US Senate. I’m a proud Democrat running for the US Senate. Thank you very much. That’s only happened three times.
But the worst of all is when he says like tonight, it’s great to be in the state of Ohio. No, no, Joe you’re in Pennsylvania. No, no. It’s Ohio, isn’t it? Or when he was in Idaho and he said, Iowa. It’s great to be in Iowa. No, no. It’s Idaho. Potatoes, [inaudible 00:50:58] by potato, Idaho potato. Or when he’s in Miami with the trees, beautiful palm trees, and he says, he’s in Vermont. It’s great to be in the state of Vermont. And you have palm trees all over the place. And I always say, if you ever do that when you speak, I haven’t done it yet think of it in four and a half years.
If you ever do that, just walk off the stage because there’s nothing you can do to make up for it. You can be the great Winston Churchill. He was a great orator, Winston Churchill. Wouldn’t make any difference. They’d say the speech was a disaster. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. And exactly one year ago today we killed the leader of ISIS, blood thirsty al-Baghdadi. And we took out the number one terrorist in the world, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal. Think of it, 1.5.
Think of it, gave 1.8 billion in cash, $150 billion for nothing. We got nothing in that deal. In fact, the deal would be almost terminating now, short term deal. What were they thinking of? John Kerry. Remember he went into a bicycle race. He broke his arm and his leg. I kept saying, leave the table, leave the table, get up and negotiate tough. Leave the table. So he left, went in a bicycle race. He didn’t come back for two months. Should have stayed out much longer than that. What a deal that was. And we terminated it. And Iran now is having a very bad time.
And the first person that’s going to call me after we win, the heads of Iran, because they are losing a fortune and I don’t want that to happen, but they can not have a nuclear weapon. They cannot have it. They’ll call and make a deal. I said, you better wait. You better wait until after the election. Let’s do it right. I recognize the true capital visual and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Every president said they were going to do it. Every president for decades and decades said they were going to do it. Wasn’t that easy. It was tough. Once you get in there, there’s a lot of opposition you get to doing it.
But we did it. We got it done after many, many years. Instead of never ending wars, we’re forging peace in the Middle East, no cost and no blood. No cost and no blood. Now it’s amazing. Amazing. You saw three countries now and we have countries lined up to get in the deal and they all said, you couldn’t do it this way. I reversed it because it wasn’t working. I reversed it. And we just did Sudan, UAE, Bahrain. And there’s a lot of countries. They’ll all be in there. They’ll all be in. No blood in the sand. No blood, Mike. No blood in the sand. No costs, no nothing.
They’ve been fighting that stuff for so many years. They all want to see if they can do something. A vote for Republicans is a vote, and I mean truly a vote for the Republican, it’s a vote for the American dream, if you think about it. It’s the American dream. It’s the American dream. We’re the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people don’t know that. The great Abraham Lincoln, the man that I’ve always competed against. I said, I can be more presidential than any president ever, except for the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat.
That’s tough. I can be actually. It’d be easy. Much easier than what I do. It’d be much easier, but we wouldn’t have quite this audience, which goes back to a point where you can’t even see it. I’d love to have the cameras show it, but they don’t want to do that. They don’t want to do that. They don’t want to show it. I don’t want to show this crowd because it’ll look like we’re having too much success and they don’t want that. So in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China.
We’re already doing it. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms, second amendment. Your second amendment under siege, but we’ve got it. We’ve got it okay for you. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, a big deal. It’s already signed, goes into effect on January 1st, bigger than healthcare, you watch. Lower drug prices even more and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always.
Right? They agree. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We’re already doing it. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag, always. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania standing up. For the last four years, you have seen me fight for you, and now I am relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country.
On November 3rd or sooner, we must finish the job and drain the swamp. It’s deeper and more vicious than we thought. But we got him on the run. Boy, do we have them on the run. Think of it, they spied on our campaign. It’s our campaign. They spied what they did to us and this new one is just incredible. I say, it’s number two. Number one, they spied our campaign and then they tried to harm a duly elected president and then they talk about peaceful transition. Now what we did and the fact that we were able to catch them and fight them and beat them and we know everything about them, watch what happens.
Just watch what happens. Get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers and get out to vote. You got to vote. We got to get out to vote. From Allentown to Altoona, from Erie to Eastern and from Pittsburgh to right here in Martinsburg, we stand with the [inaudible 00:58:05]. You like this location should, right? We stand on the shoulders of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where our founding fathers declared American independence. Think of Pennsylvania. Think of what you’ve done.
Think of how important it is. It’s where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley forge, Valley forge, where general George Washington, they will not be touching The Washington Monument, I promise. Led his man on a daring mission across the Delaware and where our union was saved by the heroes of Gettysburg. What history. This is the place where generations of tough, strong Pennsylvania workers mined the coal, worked the railroads and forged the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world.
And we are making it stronger and stronger every single day. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again.
Our military, never been a military like we have. We have made America wealthy again, 401(k)s, stock market. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again.
Thank you. This is a big crowd. That’s a lot of people. That’s a lot of people let’s see here. Early in the day… That’s a lot of people. They’ve got themselves a big, big surprise coming, don’t they huh? It’s like four years ago, except now we’ve done it all so now you know. You know before I’d come in and say, “We’re going to do this. We’re going to give you tax cuts. We’re going to rebuild your military. We’re going to give you regulation cuts, the biggest in history.” But now we’ve done it all so now you know.
It’s not just talk. The others all talk, no action. This is not talk. We’ve done it. We’ve done so much. Hello, Pennsylvania. Eight days from now, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and we’re going to win four more great years in the White House. Our opponent Sleepy Joe Biden, you heard it the other night at the debate. Did anybody see the debate? That’s where he said that there will be no fracking, right? No energy. How about a million jobs from Pennsylvania? Forget about it.
His agenda is one of doom and gloom and depression and despair. He’s right now locked in his basement. He’s put the lid on. You know the lid on the garbage can. That’s what they [inaudible 00:03:29]. Somebody said he’s going to make his way out. You know he sees we had a tremendous crowd before. We have another one of these and you know those … Well, I love you too. I don’t know who she is, but she sounds very nice. She sounds very nice. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
No, no, he saw what went on two hours ago at another location in Pennsylvania and he said, “We better get out.” I don’t think he said it. His people said, his handlers they said, “Listen, Sleepy Joe, we got to get you out of the basement.” So they just announced, you know this morning they announced they’re putting the lid. You know the lid? And I hear it’s for five days, five days. That’s 50% of the campaign. Now but they just announced we had a tremendous, I mean just a lot of love, right? And they just announced he’s leaving to make his speech. You know where he’s going to make it? In Delaware. He always makes it in Delaware.
About three minutes from his basement. They got to get him out. That’s why. They got to get him out. They see what’s happening. You know our polls are through the roof and the fake news. Look at all those people there. They don’t like to report it. They don’t like to report it. Our agenda is one of unlimited optimism, opportunity, growth, patriotism, prosperity, and true American pride. That’s what we have. That’s what we have. You heard him the other night. “This is going to be a dark winter.” No, it’s not going to be a dark winter. It’s going to be a great winter. It’s got to to be a great spring.
For the last half century, Joe Biden’s been outsourcing your jobs right here in Pennsylvania. You were one of the biggest victims of it. Opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. They just never ended. Countries you’ve never even heard of. And we’re bringing them all back. Our boys and young women are coming all back. Now Biden is trying to ban fracking. You heard it the other night. Oh, it was so nice. He almost made it through the debate. I was a little surprised. Wasn’t great, but he was fine. And then we talk the energy question and he forgot. He forgot.
Now we want to wean ourselves off energy. Oh, that’s not so good. And I said, “Texas, are you listening?” Pennsylvania, are you listening? Now he’s going to ban fracking because he has no choice. His party wants to ban it. He’s going to ban fracking and deliver an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania and for many other places in our country. And frankly it affects not just places that frack and oil territory, you know who it affects? Everybody having to do with paying an energy bill. How about the $2 gasoline for your car? That’s not bad, right? Remember? Remember what it used to be? 5.50 and nobody saw an end in sight.
We have it to two and even sometimes below, at the same time we saved our great companies, our energy. We’re number one in the world now, by far number one in the world. And Pennsylvania is a big, big part of it. In last week’s debate, Joe Biden confirmed his plan to abolish the entire U.S. oil industry. I said, “Yu mean no more oil, Joe?” “Well, that’s what I mean.”
I felt Like Perry, Mason. You ever watched Perry Mason? That last little. It was always the last minute. “I did it. I did it. Yes I did it. I was Perry Mason. No oil, Joe? She even said, “Why did you say that?” Right? Kristen, who was very good. Actually, I thought she was good. A lot of people thought she was tough. I thought she was very good. I thought she was good. I mean, considering that it was sort of supposed to be two on one from day one. Right? We’ve had that from the beginning, haven’t we huh? And here we are. Here we are.
No, I thought she was good. But she said that, right? She said, “Why did you say that? Why?” And that’s when he really got into trouble. That means no fracking, no natural gas, no jobs, no energy for Pennsylvania families. He will eradicate your energy and send Pennsylvania into a crippling depression. And that’s what you’ll have. If this guy gets in with the biggest tax cuts. Look, I gave you the biggest tax cuts in history. He wants to give you the biggest tax increase in history. Once they raise your taxes by the most ever … Think of this. All my life I’ve been watching politicians. “We will give you a tax cut. We will cut your taxes. We won’t cut them. We won’t cut them.”
This guy is running against me. “We will raise your taxes.” Who the hell ever heard of that? I never heard of it. This could only happen to me. And then you have Biden’s running mate. How about her, Kamala? She’s considered America’s by far most liberal senator. She’s more liberal than Crazy Bernie, can you believe it? Even sponsored the $100 trillion Green New Deal, which will destroy our country. Totally destroy it. No planes, no cars. No cows, right? No cows. Cows are next. They took it out, but only temporarily they’ll do it. They don’t like cattle of any kind. And it’s a plan for economic suicide. 100 trillion. If our country did great every year for a hundred years, we’d lose a fortune at a 100 trillion. You couldn’t make that much no matter how well we did if everything was going on all 12 cylinders. 100 made up by AOC plus three, a great student of the environment. I don’t think she ever took an environmental course in college. She did go to college, right? AOC plus three, I heard she was very upset that I was calling her AOC plus three, three years her friends. Her three friends that know less than she knows.
Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who wiped out your steel mills, closed down your factories, killed your coal jobs, outsourced your industries. And supported every horrible, terrible, ridiculous trade deal for over a half a century. Think of it. 47 years plus. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA, the worst trade deal ever made and I ended it. Remember I used to say, “We’re going to end” and everyone smiled. They said, “Hey, look, give it a shot.” I got it done. Nobody thought I could get that done.
And USMCA just kicked in and it’s incredible for our country, less for their countries, but that’s okay. They’re happy sort of. Not too happy. He enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. That was the beginning of the China rise. That was a disaster. They were flatlined for years and years and then boom. Thank you very much, Joe. I appreciate it, Joe. Joe and others decimating your manufacturing and enriching China at your expense. You know that.
You know that China’s considered a third world country and for purposes of that it’s considered a developing country so they have all sorts of advantages over us in this horrible, horrible World Trade Organization. But we just won a seven in a half billion dollar lawsuit because they know I’ll pull so fast out of that mess. That is such an unfair deal. And all of a sudden we’re winning. All of a sudden we’re winning cases. Seven and a half billion. Seven and a half billion. They’re not happy about it.
Now but think of it. They’re considered a developing nation. I said, “So we’re a developing nation too. We’re developing. They’re developing, we’re developing. They get big advantages.” Nobody ever says, Obama never said anything. Sleepy Joe never said that. I’m the one that figured it out. I said, “How come they’re getting all these great deals?” “Well, sir, they’re considered a developing nation. Whereas the United States is considered developed.” And I said, “We’re not developed. You got to be kidding me. We’re not developed.” We want to be a developing nation also.
And so having a big dispute, World Trade. Well, World Health, right? So we were paying 500 million a year. China was paying 39 million a year. China had more access and more power within the realm than we did. So I said, “Let me ask you a question.: Number one, they were wrong on almost everything. I don’t want to knock them, but they were wrong on the pandemic. They called a lot of shots wrong, almost everything. They were in China’s pocket. I said, “Just out of curiosity, let’s get down to dollars. Why are we, 325 million people, why are we paying 500 million and why is China paying 39 million? And China has more power within than we do.” So if you don’t mind, I withdrew from the World Trade from the World Health. From World Health. I withdrew from World Health.
And I promise you one thing, if we ever go back, we can go back from which less money. That I can tell you. You don’t pay 500. No, but seriously. So they have 1.5 billion people. They’re paying 39, right? We have 325. We’re paying 500. Other than that, it’s a wonderful transaction. I say, “Oh, we have hundreds.” I could talk to you all day about it. We have hundreds of things just like that.
Pennsylvania lost 50% of its manufacturing jobs after Biden’s NAFTA and this China disaster that we signed. Decade after decade, vote after vote, Biden betrayed Pennsylvania. He betrayed our country through sheer stupidity. Even his Secretary of State who was also Secretary of Defense said, “He never made the right decision on foreign events, on foreign deals on foreign anything. He never made the right decision on economics. The guy doesn’t know what the hell he’s doing.” Do you finally understand this? He repeatedly tried to cut social security and Medicare. I think we have it. It costs a hell of a lot of money. We’re only doing this for very important groups.
See that screen up there? It costs a lot of money. Look at these cranes over there holding up the flags. I love that. I hope that’d being donated by the crane company for the good publicity they’re going to get. But that’s a lot of holding up the flags, but you know what? Our flag deserves a lot of power, doesn’t it? Now after years of economic treachery, Sleepy Joe Biden wants to ban fracking. And that’s what he is. We have the tapes. Remember he said, “Oh, play the tape.” This guy went for a full year. “We will ban fracking. We will ban fracking” like a hundred times. I could have this thing running for hours. I’ll just show you a couple.
When it goes on. Cecil B. Demille. When it goes on, right? I’ll just show you a couple. But he went for a whole year, “We will ban fracking, ban fracking.” Then he got lucky. Elizabeth Warren decided that she wanted to hurt her person where the philosophies are the same. So she stayed in. Think of it. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. All she had to do is get out before Super Tuesday and Joe would not have won any state, right? Wouldn’t have won a state. She took the votes away from Crazy Bernie and you know Bernie is the best sportsman I’ve ever seen. He loses all the time and he’s happy.
He goes back into Congress … Is Bernie running again in four years? Does anyone know? The press? Look, I’ll ask the fake news. Well, they’ll give you a fake answer. No, it’s true. He’s a tremendous loser. He is a tremendous loser, but he did us some big favors. You know, we had a lot of Bernie’s people come with us last time because they agree with me on trade. They couldn’t have done what we did, but they know that we were being taken advantage of by foreign countries. Many of whom are allies. You know they keep saying, “We don’t treat our allies right.” Well, they don’t treat us right, either. Got to remember that they don’t treat us right.
You don’t have to take my word about his record. Just take a look at this magnificent tape that we made for you, for the people of Pennsylvania. And it really pertains to you so much. Go ahead.
My problem is I voted for NAFTA. I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
When you ran for president and when Barack Obama ran for president, you both said you would renegotiate NAFTA. You didn’t.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China, which forced the American workers to compete against people who are making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton didn’t do enough about it. George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it. Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
How exactly are you going to negotiate that? What magic wand do you have?
A rising in China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the of rest of the world. A rising is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping.
The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are competition, they’re going to beat us is bizarre. China is going to eat our lunch? Come on, man. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the World Trade Organization, which you supported extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, that those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you I think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
Today we’re finally ending the NAFTA nightmare and signing into law the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement, very special.
Listen, it’s hard to overstate the importance of USMCA. This is the single biggest bipartisan legislative victory for this president and this administration. It is a huge deal.
Wage growth is better than it has been since 2009. That means it is better than it has been for seven out of eight of the years that Obama was president.
The new USMCA has powerful protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs. Since the election, we’ve created 41,000 brand new motor vehicle and parts jobs.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA.
… Senator Biden to respond.
I never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
I didn’t. Show the tape. Put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration?
No, we were working it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee you we’re going to end fossil fuel. No more, no new fracking. I’d gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
What about safe stopping fracking and stopping pipeline infrastructure?
No pipelining. Exactly. They want to do the same thing I want to do. They want to phase out fossil fuels and we’re going to phase out for fossil fuels.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question-
Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
By the way, I would transition from the oil industry, yes.
Oh, that’s a big statement. That is a big statement. In terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? Will you remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma? Goodbye, Pennsylvania. Thank you very much. Make sure you vote properly. No, I’m kidding. What do I have to speak about? Okay? He’s going to destroy your economy. I mean, he said it and then he lies. He goes and says for a year, “There will be no fracking. And then he goes and he says, “There’ll be fracking” because he comes here, somebody explains that you have a million jobs in fracking. And he goes, “Oh, I didn’t know that. Oh, well, I never said that.” For a year he said it many, many times. We only put four or five versions of it up. We could have kept you here all day.
And by the way, Barack Hussein Obama showed up too. You know how many people he’s drawing at these rallies? He’s drawing flies, flies. 20, 30, 40. Not quite this crowd. Oh, did you see the other day? You see the other day, Mr. Congressmen? A great Congressman. He had 41 people, but the press never shows that. They show him speaking. Now with me, I want the opposite. I want them to show this crowd in the middle of the day on a Monday. What a beautiful, raining. I mean, It’s amazing. Right? Middle of the day. It’s incredible. No, he has 41 people, they’re 22 people and he gets up and then they say, “Oh, he’s so rhetorically good.” I never thought he was a good speaker personally. I really never did. Then they say he’s so handsome. He’s so handsome. Oh, okay-
… he’s so handsome. He’s so handsome. Oh, okay. All right. But they don’t want to show … you know what they don’t want to show? They don’t want to show this crowd. They don’t want to show the crowd. You know what? They don’t want to show this crowd for the exact opposite reason because this is amazing. You know what, honestly, no matter where we go, Wisconsin, Ohio, North Carolina, we have crowds nobody’s ever seen, in the history of politics there has … and I say it, knowing, going, oh, that’ll change it. In the history of politics, and you know, we have Pennsylvania Dutch.
Don’t tell anyone, you know, they’re great people. They’re great people, but they’re not known for going out and voting for a lot of … Don’t tell anybody, but the Pennsylvania Dutch are voting en masse. They’re voting.
I heard that the other day. They said, “We can’t have a man who sleeps,” they work hard. We can’t have a guy that sleeps all day in a basement. We can’t. We like Trump. We like Trump. That’s great. Thank you. There’s a little relationship there. You know, a long time ago, a little relationship there, hard workers, incredible craftsman. You’ve done work for me over the years, I’ll tell you, they can throw up a barn in about two days.
They can throw it up, and they use the wooden cogs, they don’t use screws because they want to make everything themselves. Right? And that is the most beautiful place. Really, you do great work. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.
In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt far-left political establishment, and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first. With your vote, we will continue to fight for American workers, nobody’s ever fought harder, lower drug prices. I instituted a favored nations laws. The drug companies do not like me. You’re going to have a 60, 70, 80% drop in drugs. Last year was the first year at 52 years, that drug prices went down. They went down very little, but they went down, in 52 years, but that’s the peanut stuff.
The big stuff is favored nations. They are not happy. Big pharma, most powerful lobbyists. They spend money like it’s water. They are spending more money on me right now than sleepy Joe and commercials, big pharma because we pay the highest prices in the world, and I said, “I want a favored nations,” where we matched … We match now the lowest country in the world. So we go from the highest to the lowest because I instituted something that nobody thought anybody would ever do.
And they want to make a deal. They all get paid like 30 million a year. They’re very smart. I used to say, “If you don’t cut your drug prices, I’m going to institute favorite nations.” “Oh, we don’t mind that, sir. We don’t mind that. We don’t mind that.” When I did it, they went crazy. They’re good poker players, but they want to make a deal. So let’s see. Maybe we’ll make a deal. Maybe we won’t. But in the meantime, you have favorite nations.
I’m telling you, I see the great Jeffery Lord there. Is that Jeffery Lord? You’re going to drop … Jeffrey, formerly of CNN, and then he became a Trump guy and CNN said, “We got to get this guy off. We got to get him the hell out of there.” You look good, Jeffrey. You look good. He’s been a great guy, actually. He was in a hostile territory for a long time, but he knew what was right. He always knew I was right. Thank you very much Jeffery.
We want to support our police, protect our great second amendment, defend our borders and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA. We’re doing that. Remember when I campaigned four years ago? I said, we will be saying Merry Christmas again. We do, we do. Remember?
The department stores, they didn’t like Merry Christmas, that was not politically correct. Oh yeah. They learned, and they’d say, “Happy New Year,” and they’d have the card and the snow, and the whole thing. But they wouldn’t say, “Merry Christmas.” They’re all saying Merry Christmas again. That’s the way we have done. I told you that we will deliver a record prosperity, epic job growth and a safe vaccine that quickly ends the pandemic, which is ending with or without, and we have the vaccines. They’ve going to be very … Nobody would have them. It would be years before you had them. What I did with the FDA, and the FDA has been terrific, but it was called a slightly speedier process, okay? And totally safe.
We will have the vaccine like momentarily and we’re all set to distribute it before the end of the year, maybe substantially before, but it’s going good. But we are going to get ourselves back to normal life. I said, normal life. Where we were seven months ago, we had the greatest economy in the world. We had the greatest economy in the world. We want to get back to exactly that and we’re in a super V right now.
You see the numbers, the housing numbers, the automobile numbers, all the numbers, the way they’re coming back at a level that nobody’s … the job numbers, 11.4 million jobs in a short period of time, we will be back very quickly and we’ll never forget what China did to us. That was … No, we will never, ever forget.
You know, I signed a great trade deal with China. They ordered the largest … It’s the largest order of corn, the largest order of soybeans, beef, cattle ever a few weeks ago because they want to keep us happy. They want to keep us happy. But you know what? We’re not happy. We’re not happy. What they did to us. They could have stopped it. They stopped it from going into China, the rest of China, Wuhan, and they stopped it, but they didn’t stop it from going out to the world. That includes us in Europe and every other place, 188 countries, they didn’t …
Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see it all happening and watch, Pennsylvania is a late voting state, by the way. You vote late, and I love that. I love that. I like voting a little late because you can see what we’re doing. We’ve done an incredible job with a lot of different things, but you’re going to have a GDP number, the Atlanta Fed said, now the highest I think was 8%, 9%. It was not … It was high. They project a 35% increase in GDP. Nobody’s ever had that.
I’ll take 25% right now. Okay? They projected a 35, and that number will come out on November 1st, right before the election. So if you’d like to wait, everybody here is sure about Trump. But if you happen to be a little bit nervous, just wait. We’re going to have a 35% or a 25%, but it’s going to be magnificent because we are doing great. It’s the greatest comeback anywhere in the world economically, and we went down the least of any country in the world. So remember that.
I gave working families, record-setting tax cuts, the largest tax cuts in history. In my second term, I will cut middle class taxes, even more. We’re cutting the middle income taxes, very substantially. We’re doing another cut and what it does, to be honest, it brings more business. It brings more jobs. You have to see, in terms of what we did for business, companies are pouring into the United States. Joe wants to take all of the regulations that we took off, 20 years to build a highway with environmental and all, 20 years.
No they want to take them and they want to put them all back. Now we have it down to two years to build a highway and it could be one, and it may be that you don’t build it because of environmental or safety, and that’s okay, but you’re going to know fast. You’re going to know fast and you will build it. But you’re going to know fast. 20 years, we have much worse than 20 years. We have highways that have taken 21, 22, 23 years, and then never got approved.
How about that? You go work on something for most of your adult life, and then they reject it at some environmental board, three to two. No, we’re going to do it in a year. We’re getting it down to a number that’s … and by the way, it’s going to be much less expensive, much better. We have highways that started as a straight road from here to here that ended up like this, that caused a hundred times more, much more because it took so many years and we’re not doing that anymore. We’ll put it in. We’ll either get it approved or not get it approved. It’s a big impact. That’s one of the reasons that our foundations are so strong. That’s one of the reasons that we can make a comeback. Nobody else can make a comeback like us. We have the greatest country in the world.
Thank you. Thank you. So we gave you the biggest tax cut in history, by far, and Biden is proposing the biggest tax hike in history, which, that will lead to a depression like you’ve never seen. This is a terrible thing.
By the way, this is the most important election in the history of our country, remember that because you have a radical left movement that wants to make us a large scale, very large scale version of Venezuela or so many other countries with the same philosophy.
And it can happen. You know, 18 years ago, Venezuela was a very rich, beautiful, powerful place. Now they don’t have food, they don’t have water, they don’t have medicine. They have nothing, nothing. They have oil. It’s worthless. The whole thing is like, what’s happened? This would be a very, very large scale version of the same thing. It can happen.
When you see these people and what they want to do, it’s the same thing. It’s all the same thing. It doesn’t matter the size, we’re much bigger, but it’ll happen. We can’t let it happen. This is the most important, and I never thought I’d say it because what we did altogether, most of we’re with us, four years ago nobody thought that anything could ever be more important as an election than that. This is now the most important election we’ve ever had.
It’s a choice between a Trump super recovery and a Biden depression, and it will be in depression. It’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock down the country. We understand the disease. We have to take care of our older, wonderful people, our elderly, especially if they have heart problems, a diabetes problem in particular, different problems. We do that.
But look, I mean, I got it and I’m here, right? I’m here. We have great medicines now. Great therapeutics, and the first lady got it and she’s doing great. But you know? You know who else got it? Barron. My very tall son got it. He’s definitely tall. He’s very young, he’s very tall and he’s strong. The doctor said, “Sir, I here to inform you, Barron has tested positive.” I said, “Tested positive for what?” They go, “Corona.” You know, there’s about 30 different names for this. I call it the China virus because that’s where it came from. The China plague. No, “Barron has tested …” And I said, “Wow, that’s too bad.” “Well, he’s going to be good, sir.” 99.9, right? 99.9. So I said, “How are you feeling Barron?” “Good. Why what’s the problem?” He didn’t even know. I saw the doctor like two minutes later, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay, sir. He’s fine.” I said, “What do you mean he’s fine?” “It’s gone.”
The young kids, they have a strong immune system, I’ve gained such respect for them. They have a much stronger system than we do, whether we like it or not. So it’s one of those things, but we have to do that, and it’s incredible, but we have made such strides. It’s absolutely an amazing thing what we’ve done in a period of seven months because I’m the president of the United … Thank you very much. I’m the president of the United States. I can’t lock myself in the basement of the White House. I can’t.
I can’t lock myself in a beautiful bedroom in the White House upstairs. I can’t do it. I can’t do it because we have things to do. We have people to meet and I’ll have meetings. Sometimes I’d have meetings with a lot of people that were pretty much unavoidable if you’re the President. I mean, you can go and just lock yourself away. You can’t do that.
I’d leave those meetings, and I’d say, even with Gold Star Families, they’re looking forward for months and months and they lost their son or their daughter, or their husband or their wife, and you can’t cancel that. I say, “Boy,” and I’m not referring to that, in so many of the meetings I’d have, I’d say, “That’s a little risky,” right? “That’s a little risky.” Then one day you get it and that’s okay, you get better.
We have such great, I think, cures. Regeneron, I mean, to me, that was like a cure. I don’t know, maybe it would have been fine without it, but let’s say I didn’t want to take a chance, if I have my choice, I’ll do whatever … I often tell them. I tell the story about when you’re president, you have a lot of doctors and I had 12, and the best, these great … Sean the White House doctor is fantastic. He really is. They’re great, talented people, and the Walter Reed Hospital is incredible.
I see what they do to our young, incredible soldiers that come back with horrific injuries and they do their job, and John’s Hopkins and I’m sitting in bed and I’m saying, “I don’t feel so good doctors.” I say, “Where are you all from?” And I get a list of the who’s who of the world, right? These 12 guys. They each … He says. And they each … Thank you very much. I think that’s a compliment.
But they each have like a specialty and I’m sitting around and I’m sitting around, and I’m laying there and I want to get the hell out, but I’m not feeling the best I’ve ever felt, I’ve been used to that. All of a sudden, the hands go all over my body. I got these 12 guys. They examine every part of your body, you wouldn’t believe it. I said, “Get the hell out of here. I want to get out of here.”
But I took Regeneron, and the next morning I felt like Superman. I felt, boom. Boom. I said, “I got to get back. I got to get back. You don’t want a president that’s laying in the hospital saying, “Ahh.”” We got to get back, right? And people get back. 99.9, I mean, you know? And this state has to open up. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, got to get it open.
You have a governor who, by the way, has made it …
A governor named Wolf. I’ll remember, I’ll remember. You know, on my last site, he got them to close it up. We’ve had a lot of problems getting sites. They believe in freedom of speech, of course. But we’ve had a lot of problems with this guy because on the last one, we had to move around different sites. He was watching. They don’t want to … They don’t want us to speak.
This is the guy who’s in charge of ballots, in this state. So what do you think he’s going to do with the ballots, right? And this is the guy that we just sued because they don’t want to have poll watches in Philadelphia. So why don’t they want to have poll watchers? What’s wrong with people watching the votes. They don’t have. They don’t want to poll watches.
If Joe Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, they will delay the vaccine, delay the therapies, prolong the pandemic and close your schools and shut down your country. I hate to say it. You are shut down anyway, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, you’re going to have to either get a new governor or he’s going to have to open it up. Don’t worry. On November 4th, on November 4th, he will announce, “We have decided to open up Pennsylvania.” No, that’s true.
I had the same thing in Michigan. We actually sued Michigan and the constitution, they opened it up. They said it’s unconstitutional what she was doing. She was running it like a prison camp, except for one person who was it? Her husband. Her husband gets caught going out boating and all sorts of stuff. He was the only one that was allowed to do whatever he wanted.
But no, she ran into … it was terrible what was happening in Michigan. And by the way, we’re up in Michigan. We’re leading … I have here. I have here, and the only reason I’m doing this, remember I used to do it all the time for years ago? I got to start doing it again because they give you fake poll numbers.
So [inaudible 00:17:12], which was very accurate, a great poll, had us at 53, and 52. We’re at 52%. history says that at 52%, you don’t lose, right? We’re at 52%. They don’t want to report it. Any poll that comes out positive, they don’t put it on. I’ve been told by pollsters, ” Why don’t you get it out? It’s a great poll.” Sir, we do get it out. They will not report it. These people that are most dishonest people.
So ready, different polls. We’re leading in Nevada. We’re leading big in Texas. You hear that? We’re leading big in Ohio. Remember you must win Ohio. In fact, I hear they left Ohio. They’ve given up Ohio. We’re leading big in Ohio. Jim Jordan is a good guy, right? We’re leading by four points in Florida. You didn’t hear that did you?
We’re leading by infinity in Utah and West Virginia, we’re leading by, forget it. I won’t even … We’re leading by a lot in Utah. We’re leading by 20 points in West Virginia, 20. In Georgia, we’re leading by four points. I think it’s much more. By the way, four points. Then we have Jeffrey, right? The hidden voter. A lot of you people are hidden voters.
They’ll say, “Who are you voting for?” “Leave me alone. Just leave me alone.” That’s what happened. Remember they thought that I lost because the exit polls, and people would ask about, they’re calling them, “Most in history.” By the way, the most of the history, they’d leave the poll, they voted, four years ago and it’d say, “Who did you vote for?” You know, these arrogant, stupid people. “Who did you vote for?” “It’s none of your business.” So they’d mark it a blank.
Then another one, “Who did you vote for?” Some of them would say, “I voted for Hillary Clinton. Is that okay?” And they did, they voted for me. They said, “I voted for crooked Hillary Clinton. Okay, is that all right?” So they’d say, “Okay, Hillary Clinton.” “Who did you vote for?” “None of your business.” There’s another word. There’s another two words that are much more effective. Who do you vote for? “Mm-mm (negative).”
But I won’t say. If I do that, the campaign is over, right? She’s saying, “Don’t say it, please, sir.” I promise. I’ve learned. I’ve learned. We can’t even kid. With these guys, we can’t kid. There’s a lot of them though, there are a lot of them in a rainy day in Pennsylvania, the middle of the day.
So what happened is I was told, a number of people called, “Sir, I’m sorry to tell you that it’s looking very, very bad.” “Oh wow. Why?” And I had gotten home from Michigan, made a speech at one o’clock in the morning it started, so it’s election day, with 32,000 people. She had made a speech primetime seven o’clock and she had 500. I said, “Why are we going to lose Michigan?” Hadn’t been won in decades by a Republican. I said, “I think we’re going to win.”
But anyway, we get back and we did. We won Michigan. We’re leading Michigan, again, by the way, according to this. We’re leading a lot of places that they don’t talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it. It’s suppression. They want to convince you. They want to depress you. They want to suppress you. They want you to think, ” Gee, let’s not vote. We love our president, but let’s not vote because he’s not going to win.”
Well, they tried that last time and it didn’t work and it’s going to work even … I mean, our numbers are much better this time than last time, but you still got to vote. I almost hate to tell you because you’ll say, “Oh, now I don’t have to vote. He’s winning,” right? No, you got to go out and vote.
But I’ll never forget that that evening where I was told, “Sir, no, sir, I’m sorry, but not looking good,” because they took all those people, which was like 42% that said, “It’s none of your business,” essentially, in different forms, and they didn’t count them. They didn’t realize that every one of those people that said that was our people. Then all of a sudden I get a call like an hour and a half later from a real pro who’s with me right backstage, Bill. He goes, “Sir, these are great numbers. Sir, you’re going to win Florida. Sir, you’re going to win North Carolina. Sir, you’re going to win Pennsylvania.” He’s a political [inaudible 00:44:30].
You know, when I got the first call from a great person, but I felt badly because we worked so hard. When I got the first call, I went in to see our great first lady who is a great person. I said, “First lady, first lady,” and I said, “First lady,” sometimes referred to as Melania, I said, “You know, it’s not looking good. It’s not looking good first lady. We worked hard.”
It’s funny. I thought it wasn’t going to make it. But one thing, unlike Joe, where he goes into a basement, if he loses and who knows what happens, right? It’s called an election. He should be ashamed of himself because he didn’t work. No, seriously, he didn’t work. One thing, I did five, six, and sometimes seven of these in one day, those last few days. During the regular time I do two or three. Today, I’m doing three of these, a tremendous crowd waiting for us in another part. This is the second one.
So when they told me that information, you know, you feel badly, but I didn’t feel bad because I left it … You know, the athletes, they say, “We left it all in the field. It was all left.” I did six or seven that day, six or seven of these. This is not like talking in front of 10 people, right? There’s a lot of people here, and I did them from early in the morning till one o’clock in the morning, the next day, which is election day. So I didn’t feel …
But then what happened, so I told the first lady, I said, “Not looking good.” She said, “Do you mean …”
… told the First Lady, I said, “Not looking good.” She said, “Do you mean we lost?” I said, “It looks like it.” Then I go in about an hour later, “First lady, I got news for you. I think we’re going to win.” Because they didn’t … Isn’t it sort of an amazing thing? But they didn’t say that they had this tremendous record set of numbers. When you leave, people usually say, “I voted for this one, that one, I voted.” But we had a record set of numbers, Jeffrey, we had a record set where they just said, “It’s none of your business. We don’t want to tell you.” And all of them were our votes. And this was the only guy that figured it out. So, we had one of the most exciting evenings in the history of this world, let alone this country. It was all over the world.
And we’re about to go into an evening, in eight days, can you believe that? We’re about to go into an evening, that I think is going to have a similar result and maybe even a bigger margin, but a similar result. And the same thing is happening. A good writer, very good writer, a writer on politics, but a lot of things, Byron York, right? Would you rate him good, right? I think he’s good. But I saw him this morning and he wrote something that they were asking him, who’s going to win? He said, “I don’t know.” Because they only show these fake polls. He said, “I don’t know, but I cover this,” he’s great political guy. And he said, “I go around and I cover this whole thing. And I’m not only talking about the rallies that Trump has, because he sets them up.” We have to take the space and we have to do. We’re organically, there are rallies of boats, thousands of boats, all over the place and cars and tractors and trucks. Trucks, thousands of them.
He said, “There’s never been anything like this.” He said, “I’ve never seen anything like this politically. There’s such a spirit, like I’ve never seen.” He said, “You have these organic and Trump has nothing to do with them. But they’re rallies where truckers get a thousand trucks.” In Iowa, they had like 2000 tractors on this massive field. He said, “I’ve never seen anything like this. So I can’t really tell you, but I have never seen.” And how about these rallies? Nobody’s ever had rallies like this. You might have a rally like this. You might have a rally like this on the night before the election, right? The night before the election, but you’d never have rallies. These are massive, every one, Ohio was so big. Ohio, if you would’ve added up inside and outside, you had at least 50,000 people, Wisconsin, the same kind of thing.
But he said, “Forget those, I’m talking about where they just organically form, nothing to do with Trump.” And it’s an amazing thing, right? It’s an amazing thing. It’s an amazing … So, we have a spirit and enthusiasm, which is the most important thing. We have a spirit and enthusiasm, that’s even far greater than four years ago. We had a lot, we had a record, but have much more, because we’ve done so much. Nobody, no administration has done in the first three and a half years, what we’ve done. When you think, we’ve rebuilt our military, we’ve gotten the big tax cuts, we’ve gotten the biggest regulation cuts in history.
I mean, so many things, Right to Try. I’m just thinking, Right to Try, where you can now as a patient, you’re terminally ill. You couldn’t get anything, you’d have to travel all over the world. Most people didn’t have money. They’d go home and they’d die. Now, we have Right to Try, where you can get these advanced treatments that haven’t been fully approved. You’re terminally ill, very hard to get. They’ve been trying to do it for 40 years. What we’ve done for the vets, what we’ve done for the vets, 91% approval rate.
So, there’s more enthusiasm now by far, and we had, look, we were known as, that was the most enthusiastic anybody has ever seen a political campaign. The deplorables, remember Hillary? The deplorables. I heard that speech. She said a second word, irredeemable, right? She said, “The deplorables and the irredeemables.” I thought irredeemables was worse, but that one didn’t catch on. Little did she know, whoever wrote that speech? I want no part of them, because the next day, I am a deplorable. I’m a proud deplorable.” Right? It was the craziest thing, but there has never been a campaign like that. This one has much more enthusiasm. The differences before I was a guy who was successful, who was saying, “We’re going to do this and this and this.” But you’re listening and you say, “Okay, now we’ve done.” We have done, according to two of those people, by the way, that I see there, we have done more than we promised. Like Space Force, we did Space Force, I never talked about Space Force, right?
Think of it. We have now Space Force, a sixth branch of the new … of the military. It’s been 75 years since that happened, the Air Force, right? Now, I realized when I was in office that we needed it, because I saw Russia and I saw China, in particular. And I saw them and I said, “Well, we need this.” And it’s very hard to get, and we got it. We did much more than we even talked about doing. But the main thing is, we did it, we got it done. And that’s why there’s even more enthusiasm now than there was four years ago. That’s a long speech. Let’s get back to the teleprompter. Should we get back to the teleprompter or just keep going? Isn’t it nice to have a president that doesn’t need a teleprompter?
How about when they give sleepy Joe, the questions. They give him the questions. We’re going to ask you these … And then, they give him answers. And he’s reading the answers, reporter, “Sir, could you please ask what flavor of ice cream you like?” They never asked me a question like that. “What flavor do you have, sir?” “I have … ” He wasn’t actually sure, actually. “I have vanilla and chocolate.” I said, “They never asked me a question like that.” Even crazy 60 minutes, did you see it last night? She was so hostile to me and with him it was softball, but you know what he did? Yesterday he called me, he called me George yesterday. He didn’t remember my name, I’m insulted by it. I didn’t know, was I supposed to be happy or was I supposed to be sad? He called me George. And then, I hear the reporter sort of said, “No, no. No, it’s not George. Donald.” We can’t have this slip, our country is too important.
President Xi is a hundred percent charm. Putin, a hundred percent charm. Kim Jong-un, North Korea, a hundred percent charm. We can can’t have this. This is not a game we’re playing. If Biden and the Democrats socialists are elected, they will raise your taxes, bury your regulations. They will bury you in regulations. Dismantle your police departments, you see that. Dissolve our borders, wall is 400 miles long now, it’s almost complete. Almost complete. And it’s everything that border patrol wanted. We gave them their ultimate wishlist. We said, “Let me see what you want. How about concrete plank?” I like concrete plank, it’s cheap. They said, “No Sir, we have to see through it. We like steel because it’s stronger than concrete, but we’d like concrete also.” So, we have the bars and then we have concrete in the bars. “And then sir, we’d like rebar in the middle.” So we have rebar in the middle. No, it’s really incredible and it’s had a tremendous impact. It’s the safest border we’ve ever had now, which is very good timing.
And Mexico is paying for the wall, by the way. For those of you … You don’t hear anything about the wall anymore? It used to be like, when they thought I couldn’t get it done, it was every day. “He is not going to be able to get it done.” Remember Pelosi was fighting us, like crazy. Saying, “Walls are obsolete. We don’t need walls. We need drones to watch the people pour into our country. We need a drone a thousand feet up, so that we can watch people pour right in.” No, we have drones too, and they work off the wall, okay? That’s a good combination. But they were just going wild. And then once I got the financing and the this and the that, and then I won court cases all over the place, we started doing 10 miles a day. So, we’re up to over 400 miles, we’ll be finished very soon. But you don’t hear about it anymore. They don’t talk about the wall anymore.
They want to confiscate your guns, terminate religious liberty and pack the Supreme Court with radical Justices, who will shred the Second Amendment. You better get out and vote and to defend our God-given freedoms, I nominated Amy Coney Barrett, right? She’s going to be great. She’s going to be great. She’s going to be there for a long time. She’s going to be there for a long time. And they vote on her today. Tonight, today. The Democrats would say, “That’s a terrible thing.” They’d do the same. First, it was not terrible. Justice Ginsburg said, “No, he’s the president for four years. If somebody comes up in the fourth year, what’s the difference?” She said that. Of course, she was referring to Clinton or Obama, I guess, right? She perhaps wouldn’t have said it if it was me, but she did say it. And that’s the way it is. And they would do the same. Can you imagine Schumer crying to Chuck saying, “You know, we think it’s highly unethical to appoint a Supreme Court Justice, radical left Supreme Court Justice, because it’s the fourth year. And we think, therefore, we won’t do it.” Can you imagine that? They would do it. The only difference is they do it faster than we did it. Okay.
Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party’s nomination. He is handed control of his party over to the socialist, Marxists and left wing extremists. And if Biden wins, the flag burning radicals on the streets will be running your government, just like in Portland. We want to go in … We stopped them in Minnesota, Minneapolis, we stopped them. Wasn’t that a beautiful sight? We should have been allowed to do it a lot sooner. In Seattle, we let them know we’re coming in and the following, like two hours later, they walked away. We were all set to go in, I was sort of unhappy that they left. They took over a big chunk of Seattle, remember that? But we let them after a while, because the state is supposed to ask us and they weren’t going to. But we told them, “I’m sorry. Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter?” He’s making … he’s trying to make a deal with a foreign country to pay him 10 million. Where’s Hunter? Remember the tee-shirt, where’s Hunter? I was right. Thank you very much for that [inaudible 00:57:02]. This can only happen in Pennsylvania, right? I was here for school. So, they don’t talk about Hunter the news now, you know that, right? I give a lot of credit to the New York post to endorse me on their cover today, I’m not going to … But they don’t talk about Hunter, because they’re not allowed to, because we don’t really have freedom of the press. We don’t, okay. We don’t have it. They have totally taken this horrible scandal, the second biggest scandal in the history of our country. The first biggest was they spied on my campaign. That’s the biggest and they got caught, but the second is this and won’t even talk about it. They won’t talk about it. And the tech giants will shut everybody down and you don’t even hear. Here’s a guy, had no job, and now all of a sudden he’s making millions and millions of dollars a year and they don’t want to talk about it. And they know it’s wrong, but that’s called the opposite of freedom of the press. That’s called the opposite and they should be ashamed of themselves.
And the beautiful thing? Is that we have a voice and we’re allowed to talk to people. Lots of people. And two of those red lights just went off. No, I mean, they’re suppressing, you talk about suppression. They’re suppressing something I’ve never seen. Honestly, nobody has ever seen anything like this. Even I, I mean, I’m not a big fan, I think the press is incredible, I think it should be incredible. It’s got such potential to be incredible, it would be so good for our country. But even me, I never heard of anything like what’s going on, where you’re not even allowed to write. New York Times, I don’t know if they’ve ever written a story about it. Washington Post, they totally don’t write. Here’s a guy who stole tens of millions. He had no energy experience, zero. He knew less than this very young woman up here. Do you know anything about energy? Because if you do, you know more than him.
No, he had no experience whatsoever. He was dismissed very ceremonially. I mean, look, he was, well, whatever you want to call it, it was a very sad, it was a sad dismissal. So, he gets out of Kuwait, he gets out of the military, had no job, nothing. And his father becomes vice-president, and he gets a job on Burisma. Burisma, right? And it’s a very, it’s got a questionable reputation place. It’s an energy company, gets $183,000 a month, plus they say $3 million upfront to be on the board of a company. Nobody gets that. So, he’s on the board of Burisma, He then goes and he gets three and a half, think of this, three and a half million dollars from the wife of the mayor of Moscow. He gets three and a half million, then he goes to China. He’s he’s like a human vacuum cleaner. He follows his father.
Then he goes to China, gets a billion and a half to manage, even though he’s never heard of managing money, he knows nothing about it. And it gets millions of dollars in fees. And then, he goes for the big quinella, but that’s where it sort of ended. He asked China to pay him $10 million a year because he wants to do introductions. It was an introductory fee, 10 million a year. And I think that’s probably at someplace where they got caught. But this is pure corruption and Joe got a piece of it, because they said 10% goes to the big guy. Now, unless they have another big guy. He’s not a big guy to me, he doesn’t look too big. He looks like a big guy. No, he doesn’t look like a big guy, but 10% goes to the big guy. He had another one, worth 50%. And they consider that off limits, you can’t talk. Can you imagine if that were me or my kids? I mean, it would be the biggest scandal. It’s a disgrace. And what they do is they shut it down. They will not write anything about it.
I never thought a thing like that could happen. I never thought it could happen. In a way, it’s a bigger story than the corruption of Biden itself. Joe Biden took five days off before the debate because he wanted to practice and he’s still lost, like by a lot. You don’t want a president who takes five days off to study for a debate. I mean, you do it every day, what are you supposed to study for? Really, when you think about it. And now, he’s taking at least another four or five days off. But no, but I did hear the breaking news today was he’s going to make the speeches. I told you, I want to go hear, it’s so exciting. So exciting. When you’re a president, you can’t take a day off, you got to work. You got to work. You got to work really hard for the American people, you got to work.
And if sleepy Joe ever got in, he wouldn’t be in charge. The radical left will be in charge of the party. They will do, including fracking, there won’t be any fracking. You can forget the frackers out there, enjoy your life, but it won’t be in the life of fracking. That’s all over the country, not just in Pennsylvania, because it will be run by the radical left and the green new deal, which I thought at first was a hoax. I thought it was like the Russia hoax. Okay. I thought it was a hoax. And it wasn’t, I don’t think they believe it, it’s so crazy. A hundred trillion dollars. This election day, the people of Pennsylvania must stop the anti-American radicals by delivering Joe Biden in the far-left Democrats, a thundering defeat at the ballot box. At the ballot box. Got to do it.
Whether you like hearing it or not, Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. He’s a corrupt politician. You don’t do that with these countries. We could do it, it would be so easy. It’s like they raise all this money, $300 million, and they’re saying, “Oh, Trump is being outraced.” I would be the greatest fundraiser, all I have to do is call all the Wall Street guys, call all the guys, call everybody. I would get five, 10, 15, 20, 25 million, every time I made a phone call, but you know what? I could never basically deal with those companies properly again. So I don’t do it. And we don’t need the money, we got a lot of money for this stuff. We got another eight days to go. They had like $200 million, a lot of it’s small money, $61 average, small money. That’s never happened to a Republican before, but this way you don’t have to sell soul.
When somebody gives you a lot of money, it’s not to say quid pro quo. I’m sure Joe would never do a thing like that, you know? But the fact is, he’s making deals. He’s making deals. I could do it much easier, because I’m much better at it, if I wanted to be. And think of it, I’m the President of the United States, calling the head of Goldman Sachs, “Goldman Sachs!” They said, “Who?” I know, I know them all. “I want you to give me $25 million, I’m running the campaign, please give me 25 million.” They never report this stuff. And they would say, “Where do we send the check? We can have it there in one hour, sir.” But I don’t want to do that because I’m compromised. Once you do that, you’re compromised. They’re compromised. They’re compromised.
The Democrats want to destroy your energy jobs in Pennsylvania, while they’re collecting from families. But in Joe’s case, all of this money that we talked about, on boards and everything else, it’s a terrible thing. Foreign companies. He wants to send your jobs to China, while his family rakes in millions of dollars from the Chinese communist party, that’s what it is. I gave up a fortune to run for president, which is true. I lost a fortune on this deal. This is … I lost, I mean like billions, between what I lose and what I didn’t make, I lost a hell of a lot of money. And you know what? It’s the greatest decision I’ve ever made, because we are doing things that nobody else has ever been able to do. We’re helping a lot of people. We’re helping a lot of people.
Joe Biden made a fortune by serving you as vice-president. He made a fortune. Biden will sell the Oval Office, just like he sold the vice-presidency. The corruption … She said, “He already had.” Yeah, in advance, that’s right. The corruption of politicians like Biden and it is corruption, is exactly why I ran for president. I really, I ran for trade, I hated the trade deals. I saw that years ago in Michigan, they gave me the man of the year award. I said, “Why are you allowing them to take all of your car companies and moving them to Mexico and Canada? 32% of our companies were taken out. I said, “Why are you doing that?” So, it was for a lot of reasons, this one, but it was also for trade. Trade was so crazy. And now, the trade is really good.
Biden is the candidate of big media, big tech, big donors. I mean, you think about it, here I am, here I stand, right? I am with you, I stand here. Here’s who I have against me, the Democrat party, the rhinos from the Republican party, I call them the stupid people, they’re the stupid. Most of whom I beat because they all represented one of the candidates in the Republican party. Then they went sour. I guess I beat him really badly, they’ve never forgotten. But the rhinos, big tech. I have everybody against. I have rhinos, big tech, I have very bad Republicans. Actually, sometimes the bad Republicans are worse than the Democrats, I will admit. And we have big tech. And I stand here by myself and I say, “I am the only thing between you and chaos. I am the only thing between you and your Second Amendment. I am the only thing between you and pro-life. I’m the only thing, I’m the only thing.”
I’m by myself. I’m all by myself. Now, we have some good Republicans, but I’m all … but we have some Republicans that also go … It’s a strange thing, right? How some of them, they just go off the track and they always have, this is not unique to us. They always have, for some reason. We have some great ones, but we have some bad ones too. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician, if you haven’t noticed. And if I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I have fought harder for you than any president has every fought for you.
So we’re joined by a couple of real warriors and I’d like to introduce them. Congressman Scott Perry. Scott, thank you very much. Warrior. Congressman Lloyd Smucker [inaudible 00:22:25], two great guys, really fighters they’re warriors. We had some great fights that we’ve won, haven’t we? We have some great people in the Republican Party. Candidate for Pennsylvania, state treasurer, Stacy Garrity, Stacy. Vote for Stacy. You doing well, Stacy? Good? I heard you’re doing great. And Chris Cox, Bikers for Trump, did you ever hear of … who is this guy? He was good. I went … Chris says, thousands of bikers, I don’t know why the hell the bikers like me so much, but then like me.
I don’t know why the hell the bikers like me so much, but they like me. Chris told me I might be at 99 to a hundred percent, but Chris is great. And no matter where I go, I have these bikes, thousands and thousands of bikes, I never saw. And I’d say, “Come on in, can you come in?” There’s no room for them, right? They didn’t want to come in. They said, “Sir, we’re not here to listen to you speak. We’re here just to protect you. We want to protect you.” Think of that. Right? Now when they say Big Joe, that doesn’t work. But that guy is big. Thank you very much, Chris. Great job you’re doing and I appreciate it.
No, it’s true. He said, “No, sir. We’re here for…” And I felt so safe after these guys, tough guys, definitely tough. And they’re sitting on those Harleys mostly, I guess, right? They’re [inaudible 01:09:45]. They felt good. That was never my deal, okay? I like the limousine better, I don’t know why. But you know, they’re going boom, boom and I never felt safer. It’s true. There was just a tremendous love that we had right from the beginning, right? Four years ago, right from the beginning. And it stayed that way, too. We’re with them all the way. We built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years under the previous administration. African-American unemployment, Hispanic-American unemployment, Asian-American unemployment, unemployment for young people that didn’t have a high school education. They didn’t have a diploma. They had a diploma. They had a diploma from MIT where they were first in their class. It didn’t make any difference. Women did so great. Women, women, women did great.
They all reached the lowest levels ever recorded. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. And under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. That’s beautiful. Walls help. Walls work, don’t they? Remember? They said the wall is obsolete. I said no, a wall’s not obsolete and a wheel is obsolete. Everything else is obsolete. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would eliminate U.S. borders by implementing nationwide catch and release. And I actually heard he said, “We want to take down the wall.” Do you believe this? Take down the wall. We will never let that happen. We got to win this election. This is the most important… We got to win this election. Now they want to take down the wall. His plan, I don’t think… You know what, I don’t think Border Patrol would let them. Okay? You want to know the truth? I think Border Patrol would say, “Mr. President, we’re not letting you get anywhere near this wall, Mr. President.” His plan would also make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. The Biden/Harris… How do you like Harris?
The Biden/Harris plan would also increase refugees 700%. This was the manifesto that was agreed to with crazy Bernie and Biden. Biden and crazy Bernie agreed to the… We call it the manifesto. 700% increase, the most dangerous places in the world they would come in, 700%. I have a ban, I was criticized for the ban. I said, “No. If a country hates us, and if their people hate us, and if they want to do bad things to us, we’re going to have a ban.” Everybody criticized me, but I won and the United States will benefit. And now we don’t let them in. If it’s okay by the great people of Pennsylvania, we don’t let them into our country. We want people that will love us and work with us and be a great help to us. That’s what we want. We have a ban. It was very controversial when I put it in, but it’s not so controversial. All you have to do is look what happened the other day in Paris and you’ll see that it’s not so controversial anymore.
People are very happy that we have it. And we keep a lot of very bad people out of our country and nobody else would do that. Nobody else would do that, Chris, I guarantee you that. Nobody else would do it. They pledged to terminate all national security travel bans. They want to end the ban, opening the floodgates to radical Islamic terrorism. No thank you. I’m keeping the terrorists, jihadists, and violent extremists, those terrible extremists, the hell out of our country, if that’s okay. We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military. By the way, all made in the USA. We have the greatest equipment, the greatest missiles. We have the greatest rockets. We have the greatest jet fighter planes F-35. We have the greatest equipment anywhere in the world. Our nuclear arsenal is totally rebuilt or new. Hope to God we never have to use any of this equipment. Just hope we never have to… By having it, it’s less likely we’ll have to use it. That’s the way it is.
That’s the way it is. But we have the greatest. When I came in, a highly overrated general, one of the most highly overrated generals there are said, “Sir, we don’t have any ammunition.” Because we could have had a conflict, as you remember at the beginning. He said, “Sir, we don’t have any ammunition.” I said, “No president should ever hear that again.” And now we have so much ammunition. You won’t believe how much ammunition. He also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. Everyone said impossible to get it done. And exactly one year ago today, we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. And we took out the world’s top terrorist. Soleimani is dead. Soleimani is dead. Killed a lot of people, Soleimani. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash. How about that? That’s a lot of cash. $1.8 billion, nobody’s ever even heard of such a thing. $1.8 billion, five planeloads of cash. I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.
Every president for decades, they campaigned on that. Every president… Look at that, that’s [inaudible 00:06:43]. Every president for decades campaigned, they said, “Not so easy to do.” But I did it and I got the building built, right? Fast. We got it built for a tiny, tiny little fraction of what it was supposed to cost. Instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. You saw what just happened. You saw what just happened, right? Sudan yesterday, Sudan, UAE, United Arab Emirates, right? Bahrain. And we have them stacked up, stacked up. They want to come in and we did it the exact reverse as they’ve been trying to do for 40 years. I said, “That one doesn’t work.” And it’s all working out very well and there’s no blood in the sand and they want to come in. A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American Dream. It’s very simple. It is a vote for the American Dream. The Republican party is the party of Abraham Lincoln, right?
I always say, when they start saying this or that, I say, “No, no. It’s very easy to be presidential.” I can be more presidential than any president in history with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat, right? Actually, doing this is much tougher than being presidential, doing what I do is much tougher. And if I was presidential, perfectly presidential, there’d be about three people like Obama had the other day, three people. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China, which is already beginning. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will hold up our Second Amendment. Second Amendment. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. The biggest thing is price transparency. You will see, it goes into effect, already signed. I’ve signed it January 1st.
The biggest thing, lower drug prices. As I told you, favored nations clauses, biggest decrease in the history. Wait till you see that when that kicks in. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag, always. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto In God We Trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania. I’m standing up. For the last four years, you’ve seen me fight for you and now I am relying on you to deliver a historic victory for our country, bigger even than four years ago. Got to vote. By the way, could I ask you… Pennsylvania’s known as a very late-voting state, which is good, which is fine. Very late voting like, Election Day.
Very unusual actually, but I understand it. You want to make sure your vote is counted. You don’t want the ballot hoax. Because when you see it, they’ll have so many problems. You know, they throw away ballots if it has the name Trump on it, boom. They printed ballot, some ballots, I think 25,000, were printed for certain states. It was missing one little thing, the name Trump, so a lot of bad things happened. But Pennsylvania’s smart, you vote late. Who has voted? Raise your hand. Yeah, that’s what happens. This is going to be a red wave. Who is going to vote? This is going to be… And I’m glad you saw the last debate. Did you hear the number one thing on Google was how do I change my vote? Did you know that? How do I change my vote? Something like hashtag, did you hear that, hashtag, how do I change my vote? They watched the debate. Remember? I wanted that debate to move way up because a lot of people voted by this crazy ballot deal. Wait till you see the mess that thing’s going to be in.
Well, even your state, they can count them after the election is over. This is major state. They want to count them. They don’t want poll watchers and they want to be able to count votes after the election is over. What does that mean? We’re going to wait? The whole country is going to wait? We’ll see how it all ends up. It’s all in court. It’s all a hoax. And let me tell you something, the Democrats know how crooked it is, they know. And then they talk about, he’s not for freedom. He’s not for freedom. Our president is not for freedom and he’s not looking for an easy transition and safe… What about the transition that I had, where you spied on my campaign and you tried to take down the President of the United States? That didn’t work out too well. But they want a friendly transition, right Jeffrey? A friendly… But the only problem is, look at the transition they gave us. They fought us tooth and nail for years. Russia, Russia, Russia, $48 million spent on Mueller, that whole hoax, $48 million. No collusion, right?
No collusion. $48 million. Now they want a friendly, friendly… First of all, here’s the main thing, let’s not lose and then we don’t have to worry about it. Let’s just win. We won’t lose, so there’s nothing to talk about. Let’s leave it that way. No, we want everything to be done properly and we want it to be done absolutely by the book. And we want to go absolutely by our great Constitution. But you know what? When they start talking about this friendly, wonderful transition, and then you see what they put us through, it’s really very hypocritical, isn’t it? On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain that very deep and very nasty swamp once and for all. Get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get your coworkers, even get your boss. Say, “Boss, I want to get you out to vote.” But get out and vote, most important election ever. I really believe that. I never thought I’d say it. If you would’ve told me I was going to say that two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, I would have not believed it.
From Erie to Eastern, from Pittsburgh to Harrisburg, and from Lebanon to right here in Lancaster. We stand on the shoulders of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Founding Fathers declared American independence. Think of it, what you did. Think of Pennsylvania. Think of it relative to our country. So much has happened, so many important events. It’s where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley Forge, where General George Washington… Don’t worry, we will not be taking down the Washington Monument, [inaudible 00:14:52]. Cancel culture. Congressman, there’ll be no cancel culture. Now can you believe that? They actually had a commission, the D.C. mayor. One of the recommendations is, Lincoln, Jefferson, Washington Memorials, let’s take them out. And they didn’t like Mount Rushmore either, okay? It’s blowing right up now. Not going to happen. No, we stopped it. You know, I signed a document. You play with any of our statues or monuments, 10 years in prison.
It’s amazing how that stopped. All of a sudden Jeffrey, it just stopped, right? You don’t see it anymore. Where General George Washington led his men on a daring mission across the Delaware and when our union was saved by the great heroes of Gettysburg. Gettysburg, think of it, Gettysburg. What a place. Never fight uphill, boys. Right? That was Robert E. Lee, he said, “Never fight uphill.” He heard they were fighting uphill, but they didn’t have cell phones in those days. They tried to get them to stop, but they fought uphill, that didn’t work out. Think of that though, Gettysburg, the history. This is the place where generations of tough, strong, Pennsylvania workers mind the call, work the railroads, forge the steel that made America into the greatest, most powerful nation in the history of the world and where we are making it far greater than it ever was. We are making it far greater. This nation will be greater than it ever was. And I so believe that. I so believe that.
Proud citizens like you, helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, that’s what’s happening. And they don’t like that in Washington. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, your sock rockets, your 401ks. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Allentown. Thank you very much, Allentown. I know it well. Eight days, you believe that? Eight days from now, we’re going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and we are going to win four more great years in the White House. I want to begin today by discussing an issue of existential importance to Pennsylvania. Very, very important. Last week, sleepy Joe Biden made perhaps the most shocking admission ever uttered in the history of presidential debates. In other words, he blew it on live television. 91 to nine, did you see that? 91. And you know what that means? 91 to nine, but we won’t talk about that [inaudible 00:01:53] fake news.
Joe Biden confirmed his plan to abolish the entire US oil industry. That means no fracking, no jobs, no energy for Pennsylvania families, Texas, all the other [crosstalk 00:02:08]. He wants to go wind, let’s go wind. Let’s go have brownouts and blackouts all over Pennsylvania, all over the country. He wants to go wind, he wants to go with windmills that are made in Germany and China and send big, big carbon into the air when they’re making them, you know that, right? From a different continent, but that’s okay.
Biden’s plan is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania’s energy sector. I mean, I think you all know that. Did you see it though? Do you believe it? And even the anchor, who I thought did a very good job, by the way, Kristin, I thought she did a very good job. She said, “Why do you say that?” Do you remember that? “Why are you saying that? Why do you say that?” He will eradicate your energy and send Pennsylvania into a crippling depression. Somehow, that doesn’t sound good, Mr. Congressman [inaudible 00:03:04]. The Biden energy shut down, and he wants to shut down the whole country and we’re rounding the turn. All they want to talk about is COVID. By the way, on November 4th, you won’t be hearing so much about it. COVID, COVID, COVID. COVID! Today, let’s talk about COVID. All over Europe. Europe’s spike, they don’t talk about that.
Now we’re rounding the turn and we have the vaccines coming out very soon, years ahead of schedule. If he would have done it, like he did the H1N1 swine flu, one of the worst handled, that was an epidemic. It was a disaster, he had no idea what the hell he was doing, but you know that. The Biden energy shutdown would inflict deep pain and misery on Pennsylvania, mass layoffs, constant blackouts and brownouts, soaring gas prices. Nice to have that $2 gasoline, isn’t it? Surging energy bills, no air conditioning in the summer, no heat during the winter, and no electricity during peak hours. “Let’s watch President Trump on television. I’m sorry. We won’t be able to do it. The wind isn’t blowing today, darling, we won’t be able.” No, it doesn’t power those big factories that were opening up all over the country.
Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris. Did you see her last night on television with the laugh? She was laughing at a horrible question about her and she just laughed, she found it so funny. She’s the most liberal Senator by far. She’s most liberal than crazy Bernie. Even sponsored the $100 trillion Green New Deal. The Green New Deal. I don’t think so. The Green New Deal would be an economic disaster for our nation. Certainly for this state. Biden and Harris have a pledge to join and rejoin the Paris… Look, do you know about Paris? The Paris Climate Accord. One of the great disasters of all time. Just call up France, “How’s Paris doing?” Shipping your energy jobs to foreign polluters all over China, all over the rest of the world. And it was hard bringing them back, we brought our jobs back. A lot of our jobs are coming back now. They’re coming back now. Speaking about jobs, I want to thank the people that own this plant. You have a governor named Tom Wolf, I guess, Tom Wolf. This thing was set up just a few hours ago, that’s why it’s so incredible that people across the street, trying to get in. This was set up because your governor made it almost impossible for us to find any site. Normally we would have had an airport, we would’ve gotten in, we would have had a… I mean, this is really a nice place. No, I want to thank the trucking company, they’re great, they’re supporters. Well, we just found it a little while ago because they were shut out. We had a deal, it was a deal and they broke the deal, headed by governor Tom Wolf, who’s got your whole Commonwealth shut down. Whole Commonwealth is shut down. Although probably on November 4th, it’ll open. They’ll announce it November 4th. Did you see the one governor said, “No, I think we should be open by around November 4th.” Thank you, [inaudible 00:06:36]. No, they think they’re going to inflict harm in bad numbers, our numbers are so good, our comeback numbers are the best anywhere in the world. Doesn’t matter. But you know what, it does inflict tremendous harm on the people that are shut out of their jobs, that are going to lose their jobs with suicides and drugs and alcohol and all the problems. So Tom Wolf, next time, give us a little notice governor. And I’ll remember it, Tom, I’m going to remember it, Tom. “Hello, Mr. President, this is Governor Wolf. I need help. I need help.” You know what, these people are bad. We go out of our way, regardless, Republican, Democrat, when they have a problem, but he shut us out and he tried shutting us out of two other venues. We have three of these today in Pennsylvania. Three of these. And these just came out. I have to say, because I watch… In the fake news, there has never been anything like what’s happening now. But these just came out, so Rasmussen just came out, “Trump is leading.” That’s been one of the most accurate [inaudible 00:00:07:49]. You don’t read it. In fact, a pollster called us yesterday, said, “You have really good numbers.” But they won’t accept them, when we put them out, they don’t put them out. Unless they’re negative, the press doesn’t put them out. This is serious. And how about big tech? How about the Biden scandal? And they’re not even covering it. They don’t want to talk about. And by the way, that’s a real scandal. And the press doesn’t want to write about it, except for the New York Post, the press won’t write about it and big tech won’t take it.
Lock him up!
People have no idea what’s going to happen in Pennsylvania, that I can tell you. I know Pennsylvania. Don’t forget, I went to school in Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania. College and I know it much better than he does. He’s always talking about, “I grew up in Pennsylvania.” He grew up nowhere. He didn’t grow up. No, did you watch him on 60 Minutes last night? Did you see yesterday when he called me George? No, I don’t know if I like George. No, not George. What a mess. No, he called me George. I don’t know if I should be insulted or happy about it. I’m sort of insulted that’s the first time that’s happened to me in a long time. Now, but the polls just came out. So it just came out. So let me tell you the real polls, okay. Because we feel we’re winning almost easily, but you don’t hear that. I watched television today, purposely to see what was going on. So it started… CNN is the worst. But I hear the guy… I hear AT&amp;T is finally getting smart, and they’re going to fire the head of CNN. That’s what I hear. [crosstalk 00:09:55]. That’s what I hear. Zucker. But you know what? Look at this. So Rasmussen was very accurate last time, one of the top two or three. Rasmussen, “Trump approval rating, 53 and 52.” 53%.
So in another poll, we’re leading in Nevada. That’s nice. We’re, one up in Nevada, we’re way up in Texas, despite what you keep hearing. Five up in Texas. I think we’re much more than that if you listen to the Governor of Texas, who’s Greg. In Ohio, we’re way up. By four or five points, five points. In Florida, we have it down as four up in Florida, that’s a lot for Florida. So in Florida, Rasmussen, that’s a Rasmussen but these are all different. That’s a Rasmussen. 50 to 46, we’re plus four in Florida. You don’t hear these numbers, right? You hear these guys get on television, “Florida is going to be very tough.” No, we’re winning in Florida. We have crowds. We’re winning in Florida. But you don’t hear it.
We’re nicely up, five up in Georgia, Landmark. It’s called Landmark. Five up in Georgia. You don’t hear that. I heard today, “He’s losing in…” No, we’re not losing in Georgia, we’re going to win by much more than five. In Arizona were nicely up, really nicely up. Very good. We’re winning big in Iowa, but we should be with what I do for the farmers. Got them $28 million from China. In Montana, we’re so far up, they shouldn’t even have the election. Likewise, in Utah, so far up. We’re plus 12, plus 15. And in West Virginia, we’re 20 up, 20 points up.
These just came out. They came out today. And then at a head to head with sleepy Joe Biden on a national basis, I am really into the states, because you know you run… Remember Hillary used to complain, but I never did a national. Winning, I think winning the overall vote is almost easier than the electoral college. But you remember last year, she’d complain. She used to campaign in the wrong states. The year… But they probably learned, but in the national poll were leading against sleepy Joe Biden, we’re leading. And that’s a Rasmussen poll. Head to head. No, we’re leading head to head against sleepy Joe. So I just thought I’d do that.
Remember in the old days, four years ago, I used to read the polls. I’d drive them crazy and they’d say, “Oh, that’s not right.” I turned out to be right. So I want you to hear it. I saw on television now, it’s the only way we get it on because they don’t put it on, they’re fake and they’re corrupt people. They’re fake. They’re corrupt. I mean, I never watched CNN, but I had to see it this morning to see. So I watched them for a little while, I watched MSDNC, owned by Comcast. MSDNC. And you watch these polls and you say, “Oh, this is terrible.” They’re fake polls. They’re fake. They’re total fake. These are real polls.We’re going to win in Florida. We’re going to win in Pennsylvania, I think. I mean, look at this venue, you have thousands of people across the street that couldn’t get in. They couldn’t get in, because honestly, secret service wasn’t that well equipped. They didn’t expect… Because we just set this place up. We just set it up, and think of it. So we have a venue and the governor that counts the ballots… The governor count the ballots, and we’re watching you, governor, very closely in Philadelphia. We’re watching you. A lot of bad things happen there with the counting of the votes. We’re watching you Governor Wolf, very closely, we’re watching you.
But the same guy that makes it impossible for us to get a venue, we just got this thing literally hours ago. And to have people across the street trying to get in is amazing. I mean, it’s amazing. Which tells you, and I don’t know if you saw the Ohio route, we had 35, 40,000 people. Thank you very much.
We love Trump!
Nah, forget it.
We love Trump!
Thank you! Now, one of them a guest this morning. I really watched it for this reason. I mean, I had a good look. It started off, “COVID, COVID, COVID. Don’t go and vote. Don’t go and vote.” You know who’s not voting? The Democrats, they’re not voting. If you look at some of these early polls, so we’re supposed to be way down in the initial week because it’s the fake ballots, right? The phony ballots that are all crooked as hell. And then we catch up, but we have states we’re were leading in early voting. That’s trouble because we win everything from here on in. We win everything. Just get out there and vote, or if you have an absentee, send it in. But you know what, there’s nothing like getting out and voting. And I did it two days ago. I went and voted. And it was so good.
I went in Florida, at Palm beach I said, “Okay, I’m here to vote.” And the woman was fantastic, “Sir, do you have identification?” I said, “Just happen to have my passport.” “Sir, do you have any additional identification?” “I do. I do.” She says, “Thank you.” And she was good. I mean, “She was doing what you have to do. She was good. She was totally good.”
[crosstalk 00:16:00].
I hear this guy back here. So, she did a great job. And you know what, it was a beautiful thing. Because there’s no way you can cheat. I mean that, then they said, “Here, do this. And here, sir, you can…” They give you a booth, you sit down, you do what you have to do. You get up, they fold it, they put it in. Then you put it in the machine yourself. They don’t want to touch it. It was so professional. There’s no way you can cheat with these ballots. Who’s sending them, who’s receiving them, who’s bringing them back, who’s signing them. It’s ridiculous. It’s the only way we can lose, in my opinion, is massive fraud.
And that’s what’s happening because all over the country, you’re seeing it. Thousands and thousands of ballots. How about the military ballots that were thrown into a garbage can with the name Trump on it? So all we can say is law enforcement is watching Nevada, it’s watching Philadelphia, and Pennsylvania, by the way, but Philadelphia in particular, because they had a lot of strange things happen over the years in Philadelphia. And we’re watching your Philadelphia and we’re watching at the highest level.
And we’re watching the Democrat governor who’s got his state shut down, a great state, North Carolina, he’s got it shut down. We’re watching North Carolina. We’re watching Michigan. Oh, that’s another one, we’re leading by two points in Michigan. Hadn’t been won in decades until I won it four years ago. We’re leading in Michigan, and we should be, I brought a lot of car business in, brought a lot of car plants in. They hadn’t had a plant built in 42 years or something, and we brought a lot of plants in. You hear that jet? You hear them? That’s a brand new, beautiful F-35 jet. Stealth, that’s why you can’t see it. That’s super stealth actually.
Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who wiped out your steel mills. You know it better than almost any place in this country. Closed down your factories, killed your coal jobs, outsourced your industries and supported every terrible and disastrous trade deal for the whole… I mean, for 47 years this guy’s been there. You saw in the debate, did anybody watch the debate by any chance? Did you see? My standard answer, “Joe, you’ve been there for 47 years, what did you do? And you left three and a half years ago, Joe, so it’s not like it was 25 years ago. You left. Why didn’t you do it, Joe?”
He’s talking about, “Oh, I would have done this with the pandemic.” And yet he had the worst… His Chief of Staff said that he, and himself, the Chief, they were grossly incompetent. They had no idea what to do. And now they’re telling us how to handle a much more lethal problem. Amazing. I wonder if that Chief of Staff is still around? He probably said it when he assumed Joe couldn’t win. When Joe ran, because he was always 1% Joe, we used to call him 1% Joe, and then he ran and now he’s at 50%. You know where he’s at 50%? Right up there, he’s at 50. And he ends up when he… Tell me his politics is strange game.
He was a cheerleader for NAFTA, which was a disaster for your state. And he enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, decimating your manufacturing and enriching China. It’s really what made China. He voted for it. Pennsylvania lost almost 50% of its manufacturing jobs after Biden’s NAFTA and China disasters. And it wasn’t only him, but it was the thinking. That was the thinking. That’s what they want. Decade after decade, vote after vote, Joe Biden, sleepy Joe has betrayed Pennsylvania. How the hell can you vote for him? Is this a serious… How can you vote for this guy? Congressmen? How do you vote for this guy?
Look, he almost got through the debate. I wouldn’t say he was Winston Churchill, but it was okay. And then we got him, at the last question I said, “Do you mean you’re against oil?” “Yes, I’d wean it out.” I said, “Pennsylvania, Texas, are you watching?” You have no choice. Okay. If you stop fracking, which he’s against, you don’t remember? He say, “I’m against fracking. I will ban…” He did this for over a year. We only have about a hundred clips, we’re going to play some of them for you. But here’s the thing, I don’t want to play them all, we don’t have enough time in the day.
But you don’t have to take my word for it because you know what, because it’s Pennsylvania, I did a special television, like Cecil B DeMille, I did a really special little treatment for you, the late, great Cecil B DeMille. Here’s Joe on two things, security and fracking. You’re not even going to believe it. Where is your screen. This screen cost us a fortune so I hope you enjoy it.
My problem is, I voted for NAFTA.
I’m supporting NAFTA because I think it is a positive thing to do. And I do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters.
When you ran for president and when Barack Obama ran for president, you both said you would renegotiate NAFTA. You didn’t.
Trade agreements like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, which forced American workers to compete against people who were making pennies an hour, has resulted in the loss of 160,000 jobs.
The President is absolutely right when he said…
60,000 jobs.
The president is absolutely right when he says that China has been cheating for 25 years and that Bill Clinton doing didn’t do enough about it, George W. Bush didn’t do enough about it, Barack Obama didn’t do enough about it.
That was easy.
How exactly are you going to negotiate that? What magic wand do you have?
Arising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. Rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor. We should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea that they are our competition, that they’re going to beat us, is bizarre. China is going to eat our lunch. Come on, man. They’re not bad folks, folks. China’s not a problem.
Allowing China into the world trade organization, which you supported, extending most favored nation status to China, which you supported, those steps allowed China to take advantage of the United States by using our own open trade deals against us. Do you think in retrospect that you were naive about China?
No.
Today, we’re finally ending the NAFTA nightmare and signing into law the brand new US, Mexico, Canada agreement. Very special.
Listen, it’s hard to overstate the importance of the USMCA. This is the single biggest bipartisan legislative victory for this president and this administration. It is a huge deal.
Wage growth is better than it has been since 2009. That means it is better than it has been for seven out of eight of the years that Obama was president.
The new USMCA has powerful protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs. Since the election, we’ve created 41,000 brand new motor vehicle and parts jobs.
But doesn’t he deserve some credit for that? It’s better. The USMCA is better than NAFTA.
It is better than NAFTA. I have never said I oppose fracking.
You said it on tape.
I did. Show the tape, put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Put it on the website.
Would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated. I guarantee you we’re going to end fossil fuels. No more. No new fracking. I gradually move away from fracking.
And I think it’s critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands.
But what about, say stopping fracking and stopping pipeline infrastructure.
Yes. Yes. Exactly. They want to do the same thing I want to do. They want to phase out fossil fuels and we’re going to phase out fossil fuels.
There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking.
I have one final question.
Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
No way. I would transition from the oil industry, yes.
Oh, that’s a big statement.
It is a big statement.
In terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? Will you remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma?
So will you remember that Pennsylvania, please? By the way, who’s voted here so far? Oh, that’s good. Because Pennsylvania is a very late voting state, which I like actually. For obvious reasons I like that. So that’s also okay. Who has not voted yet? Who doesn’t intend to vote? Who’s not going to vote? You better say that. You’d be in big trouble in this crowd. So who is going to vote for Trump? See, that’s why I brought all that expensive equipment because it’s easier than me saying it, right. Huh? No, it’s great. That’s something brand new, just a couple of days in. We only bring it to certain locations, okay. And even though we got shut out of our main by your governor, that governor. We brought it here, but isn’t that very descriptive?
Isn’t that better than me telling you he said this and he said that? There it is. He also said, by the way, he’s going to cut your Social Security. You saw that yesterday, right. In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president who is finally putting America first. America first. With your vote, we will continue to fight the America… Look, we’re going to fight. We are going to ready. We are going to fight for the American workers and we’re going to lower drug prices, support your police. We’re going to support your police. We’re going to protect your second amendment, which is totally under seize, but don’t worry about it. As long as I’m your president, you don’t have to worry about your 2nd Amendment. Look at what I’ve done so far. It’s been under siege, I can tell you that.
We’re going to defend our voters. They don’t want to have borders. They want to have open borders. The wall is almost complete, right. And we have the strongest border we’ve ever had. Right now, they want to have open borders. And if you have open borders, you don’t have a country. You don’t have borders, you don’t have a country.
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
Thank you. Yep. Almost finished. Very shortly it’s going to be finished. We just hit 400 miles. Oh boy, that’s a lot. And this is a wall that’s exactly what border patrol and all of the law enforcement people wanted. We built them. I said, “Could you take it easy? This is getting a little expensive.” Loaded up. It’s loaded up with equipment and wires and everything else in addition to the wall, because as you know, the Democrats say, “Walls are obsolete, right.” I said, “No walls and wheels will never be obsolete. Walls and wheels.” Everything else is going to be obsolete. And we want to ensure that more products are proudly stamped with the phrase, that beautiful phrase made in the USA, right. Made in the USA.
We are going to deliver record prosperity, epic job growth. We’re doing it already. 11.4 million jobs over the last few months. There’s never been a time in our history where we put that many people to work that quickly. Groundbreaking therapies and safe vaccines that quickly end the pandemic. It’s ending anyway. We’re rounding the turn. It’s ending anyway, but the vaccines are going to be incredible. They’ll be very quick. If somebody else were president, you’d get a vaccine in about four years from now. Normal life, that’s what we want, right. Normal life. We want normal life. We just want normal life. It’s happening very quickly. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. I gave working families record-setting tax cuts, biggest tax cut in the history of this country. And this guy’s running on tax increases. I never saw it. I said it yesterday, where I was with a great group.
I was in New Hampshire. We should do very well there unless you watch television. He will not win. Then you get polls like you’re leading. And I say, “Why do they keep saying that?” Because you know what they are? They’re suppression polls. They make you depressed. And by being depressed, you say, “Darling, we really like our president a lot, but let’s just go have dinner and then we’ll come home and we’ll come home early and watch the results.” And that didn’t happen four years ago. You said, “Darling, he may not win based on television, but let’s go vote anyway.” And then they had in probably the most exciting evening maybe in the history of television, right. It sure beats any sporting contest, even ESPN admitted that. There’s never been anything like this. Then you went Donald Trump has won the state of Florida, right. Remember? And they said, “Donald Trump has just won the state of Ohio.”
So with Ohio, I mean, we went for a year. You have to win Ohio. You cannot win unless you win Ohio. And they go, “Donald Trump has just won the state of Ohio,” but here was the problem, won by eight points. That was the biggest victory. They couldn’t believe it. And they said, “There’s something going on here, but I’m sure this is just…” Remember with the hand John King, the hand shaking. Hand started getting a little shaky. No, it got a little bit shaky. And then we won North Carolina. We won, excuse me, a place called Pennsylvania.
There is no way. Beginning of the evening, there is no way for Donald Trump to get to 270, right. And they were right. I got the 306. 306 to 223. 306 to 223. That was some evening. I’ll tell you what. I hate to say it and I never thought I’d say it because what happened there was legendary. This is a more important… This is going to be the most important election in our country’s history. So get out and vote. In my second term, I will cut middle-class taxes even more. We have a big tax cut. And Sleepy Joe Biden has pledged the biggest tax hike in history. Did anybody see 60 Minutes last night? Did anybody see 60 Minutes? Which is a total joke of a show, but you saw I released the thing early so they got the full, but it was okay. But did you see his performance on that show? The only thing almost as bad was Kamala with the laugh. That’s so funny. She kept laughing. I said, “Is there something wrong with her too?”
She will not be the first woman president. You can’t let that happen. Can’t let that happen. I said, ‘Is there something wrong with her?” She kept laughing at very serious questions. But how about this? Mike was great. But how about this? They asked me, she says, “Are you ready for tough questions?” I thought she was kidding because how do you say. I said, “Just treat me fair.” No, no, no. This is tough questions. And I said, “They do.” And I said, “Let’s see what you have.” And it was just question, question, kill. Always going for the kill. She’s a zippo, but always going for the kill. And then did you see the interview with him? Oh, it was so soft. They’re trying to protect. They try so hard. That’s right. You saw the other day. He’s walking out with ice cream. Mr. Vice President, what flavor is it?
I think it’s vanilla and chocolate. I said, “I don’t get questions like that, right.” Now, Pennsylvania gets it. By the way, we win Pennsylvania, we win the whole thing. You’ve got to go out there. Big deal, right. Congressman. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery. We’re having a super V it’s called. Nobody even thought. We are doing numbers and wait until you see that number on GDP. I don’t know what it is. The Fed said it may be a 35% increase in GDP, the Atlanta Fed. They came out last week. You saw that? I’ll take 25% right now. I’ll take 15 right now. I think the record was seven or eight, but they said it could be 35%. You see car sales through the roof, housing starts through the roof. There’s great things going on, but a tax increased by Biden, all the things he wants to do, regulations.
He wants to put back all the regulations, which were terrible. It would take 20 years to get a highway approved, 20 years. A job killer is right. It’s a job killer. So you’d have that against a Biden depression. Let me tell you, if he gets in with what he wants to do, you will have a depression the likes of which we’ve never seen in this country outside of perhaps 1929. It’s a choice between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock down the country again. No, we understand the disease. Well, you guys I don’t even talk to you. You’re already on lock down. Are you going to ever open up? Congressman, are you going to get this guy, this clown to open it up? Make sure he can’t get a site. Make sure when the president comes into Pennsylvania, make sure he can’t get a site. He cannot get a site. I don’t want him here. We had one, they shut it down. We had two, they had three, but I like this place. This is quiet intimate.
My guys did a good job with about four hours notice. They had like… No, but think of it. Think of it though. I said it before. So he doesn’t want us to have a site. No freedom of speech, right. He doesn’t want us to have a site, but this is the guy that’s counting our balance. Doesn’t work? It doesn’t work. So be very vigilant and watch. Be pole watchers. Watch. Did you see where they fought us because they didn’t want poll watchers? They took us to court and we had a bad decision. We had judge, this judge. So we’ll appeal it, but this judge, obviously, I won’t get too into that. But he said, “No, you can’t have poll watchers.” So he’s saying we can’t even watch as they count the ballots, but we’re going to appeal it and we’ll end up winning.
We’ll end up winning. Can you believe it? We can’t have poll watchers the judge said. They fought us on that. They didn’t want people watching them count. Whoever heard of a thing like this? Before I came along, nobody would have sued. That’s why Romney got almost zero. When Romney in Philadelphia, remember he got almost zero votes. How did he get zero votes in a city? But we watch and we’ll sue and we’ll keep doing it and we’ll keep having law enforcement right alongside of us. If Joe Biden and his Democrat socialists are elected, they will delay the vaccine, delay therapies, prolong the pandemic, close your schools. Your schools have to open, and shut down our country. Guy doesn’t have a clue. This guy doesn’t have a clue. Have you seen what this? I mean, we can’t play with the country. The only thing I can tell you for sure, President Xi from China, President Putin from Russia, Kim Jong-Un North Korea, and I could name 40 others. They’re sharp as a tack.
They don’t want to deal with Sleepy Joe. One of them said to me, one of the leaders said, “Well, I hope you win because we don’t want to deal with somebody that sleeps all the time.” Do you believe him? No, he just announced a lid. He announced another lid. Somebody could say, “Oh, this is brilliant. This preventive defense.” First of all, did you ever see preventive defense? It always loses. A team shuts down the other team for three and a half quarters. They’re leading by six, then they go prevent defense. They lose all the time, right? Two touchdowns scored on them. They shut a team down for the whole game. Then they go, “Let’s go prevent.” Well, I don’t know if he’s doing that. I don’t think so. I think he’s doing it because he can’t answer questions, really.
When these clowns back here, bad corrupt people, when they ask him questions, he cannot answer the simplest question. How about where they gave him questions on a teleprompter? They said, “Here are the questions.” And they wrote out the answers to him and he’s responding. Can you imagine I have the press here. Sir, what about this? What about that? What about? I won’t tell you some of the tough ones because there are some questions that never work out well, no matter how you answer them. They can make whatever. They’ll take the answer that could be perfect, and they’ll make… So they’ll ask a question, and then they said, let’s say, “Oh, well that means they gave them the questions.” Whoever heard of this before? And then the way the tech fakers close section 230 anybody, they closed down because the government gave them special protection.
The way they closed down anybody. They banned the New York Post from being on. Can you believe it, the New York Post? Fourth largest. No, it’s amazing. In an interview that aired last night, Biden said he opposes letting young Americans resume their lives, even though most are at extremely low risk, 99.99. Now as an example, I had it and here I am. My wife had it, first lady had it. But the legendary Barron Trump had it. They say, “Sir, your son Barron tested positive.” I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” 14 minutes later, how’s Barron? Oh, he’s better. He’s fine because they’re stronger than us. They have an immune system. I don’t know what the hell it is, but how’s he doing? 15 minutes later. How’s he doing? He’s fine, sir. Barron, are you’re feeling okay? Nothing wrong with me, dad. I think he had the sniffles barely. 99.98% of those under the age 50 fully recover. But Sleepy Joe wants to keep the whole country on lockdown, keep them in their homes while letting rioters and looters run wild. We call these protests. This is not a meeting. We call them protests. You know why? Because the only thing you can do in Pennsylvania is a protest. You can’t go to church. You can’t pray to your God. You can’t be with your pastors, your priests, your rabbis, you can’t be none of that. You can’t do anything. You can’t go shopping. You can’t open your stores, but if you want to protest and burn the hell out of your city, no problem, you can do that. So when I was told a couple of months ago about Pennsylvania and others. Minnesota we’re going to win too. We’re going to win Minnesota because we saved Minneapolis.
I sent in the National Guard, took about a half an hour, but we’re going to win that. But when you think about it, you can’t do anything. And then they have this little clause unless you are protesting. I said, “Good. So these are no longer rallies. They are friendly protests.” When the China virus arrived, we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We banned travel from China and Europe. Sleepy Joe didn’t want to. He said, “Oh, you shouldn’t do that. You’re xenophobic.” Right. He called me racist. He called me everything. That was in January. Two months later, he still thought he was right, and then he had to apologize. And then he runs and then he said, “Trump should have done it earlier.” Except he would know, think of it. How does he get out of that one? And the fake news doesn’t want to report that. So in January I wanted to do it, but in March he thought I should have never done it. Same with Pelosi. She was dancing in the streets. Nancy Pelosi, Crazy Nancy, crazy. She’s crazy as a bedbug.
How about when she went to the beauty parlor and the woman that owned the beauty parlor is a Trump supporter. Can you believe it? Craziness. Oh, what a group. We have a good chance of taking back the House. I’ll tell you. We have a good chance. Of course, she is crazy. We airlifted medical supplies, built hospitals from scratch, slashed red tape, pioneered groundbreaking therapies. I wish Cuomo in New York would have used the convention center for seniors. If Cuomo would have you used the convention center for seniors and the big ship. We sent the big hospitals ship in, sitting there practically empty all the time. If he would’ve used the ship and if he would have used the convention center for seniors, you would have had no problem there.
… years we would have had, nope, you would have had no problem there.
We reduced the fatality rate, 85%. Think of that. That’s because of what we’ve come up with over the last little while. As I said before, here I am right. And saved over 2 million American lives.
So when this first came, people were projecting that it could be as bad as 2.2 million. Right? I think we saved by shutting down, by doing what we did, by learning the disease, and now we have therapies, therapeutics, we have all of the different things. The vaccines coming. I really think we saved 2 million lives. They never say that. The fake news will never say that. And we will deliver 100 million doses of a safe vaccine before the end of the year. Seniors will be first in line for the vaccine because they’re the most vulnerable, as you know. We learned that.
We must take the virus seriously. We must keep our people safe. But we must not give into panic and fear. They want me to say everybody, everybody, please. We don’t want to do that.
Oh, happy birthday, darling.
Most importantly, we’re protecting the elderly and those with underlying conditions with extreme vigilance. This has been my top priority from the beginning. So we understand this horrible disease sent by China, came over by China. Remember that? Don’t forget that place. I will break through every… Oh, do they want Sleepy Joe to win? When does China want Sleepy Joe to win? They own him. They own Sleepy Joe. Did you see his email where they want $10 million a year, a year for introductory purposes. You know who they’re going to introduce him to, Sleepy Joe. So the son never made 25 cents. All of a sudden Biden becomes vice-president and now he’s making millions of dollars a year. Unbelievable. And Biden, they got, Biden got a lot of it. Look, he got 10%. right? It went to the big man. I don’t consider him a big man, but went to the big man, 10%. and the press doesn’t want to talk about it. [inaudible 00:46:15]
But we won’t rest until we eradicate this disease once and for all. Little, I’m telling you it’s happening. We will vanquish the virus. We will overcome the pandemic. And we will emerge better, stronger, and more unified than ever.
And by the way, there are people that want to get out. And there are people that feel more comfortable staying at home. That’s okay. Stay. Don’t feel that, stay, it’s okay.
But if Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, they will raise your taxes to a level that you’ve never seen before. Quadruple. He’s the only candidate history whose primary platform is I will raise your taxes. Can you believe this? I’m running against this. I am running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. I am. I really believe that. And think of it, think of it, and I have to be very careful the way I say this. You know why? If I say, if I lose, they go back. We have breaking news. President Trump thinks he’s going to lose. They did it once before. I told the same little anecdote and they go back and they’ll say, President Trump thinks he’s going to… So, I have to be very careful.
But can you imagine, can you even imagine losing to a guy like this? Actually, I wish he was a good and even a great candidate, because if something happened, you feel a little better. But could you imagine, he can’t remember my name, no. I’m not that big of an ego guy. He should be here, but I’m the candidate like, that’s good candidate. And I happen to be president. He could not remember my name yesterday. This is what you’re putting in office. I don’t think he’s going to make it. I don’t think he’s going to make it.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice President Biden will be doing a lid today. No, he was doing the lid till Thursday. Hey media is it till Thursday, he’s doing the lid? Thursday. In other words, he’s taking 40% of his campaign. He’s going to lid. I don’t know. I don’t know.
Look, you know what? You could run. See this beautiful, whatever the hell is made out of, plastic. Right? See this beautiful thing. You could run that. You got the Democrats, you got the fake news media as their partner, and you have big tech. They’re all partners. And then you have the rhinos. You have the rhinos, you have the bad Republicans. You have the sicko rhinos, right? That I’ve beaten so badly over the years. You know the rhinos, the people that do the ads and stuff. Every one of those guys just about I beaten because they all represented a client in the primaries. And instead of saying, “Hey, he did a good job. He’s a smart guy. He did a great job.” They said, “Let’s go against him.” But every one of those guys take a look, real garbage, not smart people, but he wants to terminate religious liberty, destroy the suburbs. He’ll destroy.
I am saving the suburbs. I’m getting rid of a regulation. I’m getting rid of a regulation that will move a project next to your beautiful house. Congratulations. You like having a nice project next to your house, I don’t think so. And with it comes plenty of crime. That’s why they keep saying, we don’t know. We think he’s not doing well with suburban women. I think I’m doing great with suburban women.
I am saving the suburbs. I’m saving this suburbs. How can I do badly? Look, here’s what I know about suburban women. First of all, they’re great. They love our country. But here’s what I know. They want two things. They want to leave their house alone. They don’t want a five story project next to them, or could be higher. They want to leave their house alone, very important. You know what else, they want security. Okay. They don’t want to have Antifa and anarchists running through the streets. Okay. So if they agree with what I just said, I have a feeling they’re going to be voting for Trump.
It was the same time, last I remember. They said he will not get the women’s vote. He will not get the women’s vote. And then at the end of the evening, you remember how great I did. Right? One of my best group, women. So I said, “Am I that bad? Am I that bad?” He will not receive the women’s vote. You know, Jim, this should be over very quickly. Donald Trump. At that time, it was just Donald, no president. Donald Trump will not be able to get the women vote. The end of the evening, they said, “Man, did he do well with the women vote? What the hell happened?” So true.
And then Biden’s going to pack the Supreme Court with radical justices who will shred your second amendment and pro-life. And so many other things, he were shredded it. To defend our God-given freedoms. How do you like Amy, by the way, isn’t Amy great?
I nominated Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court of the United States. And tonight she will be confirmed by the Senate. And become the newest member of the Supreme Court. It’s a big deal. He wants to pack the court, maybe 16, maybe 18, maybe 20. Why don’t you put a couple of hundred people in there. He wants to pack up the court with radical left judges. And I’ve been saying, I’d go a step further. I have a list of 45 great people. Great people. They believe in a thing called the constitution. Little things like that.
He’s got to tell us who he might put on because you can’t vote for him unless you know. Because you can’t have radical left judges who are looking to destroy our country. This election day, the people of Pennsylvania must stop the anti-American radicals, delivering Joe Biden and the far left. You have to do this, a thundering defeat. You have to deliver them a thundering, beautiful, big, solid defeat. You better get out there and vote.
When I saw the few hands of the people that voted, that’s in Pennsylvania, for some reason you always vote very late. I guess you’re like me, you feel like voting in a booth, pressing a little button, right? Having somebody check to see that it really is you. There is something nice about it, right? But no, but Pennsylvania, I think more than any other place they want vote late. So I’m really happy to see this, because you know what a lot has been learned in the last few days. The debate learned a lot. We learned a lot about fracking, about energy, about the fact that he’s not all there.
No, that debate was important. It had a lot like Super Bowl type ratings, right? I’m glad they didn’t tell me that before I went onstage. But that debate was great. And we learned.
Other things we learned when this Savannah Guthrie, who is just terrible. No, she was coming out of her chair. She was asking me. She was crazed. She was crazed. And I did a nice job. Savannah take it easy, just relax. Just relax. Don’t let the hatred show. But we learned a lot. You learned a lot and I’m glad you’re getting ready to vote. And we’ve got a blow them out. This is the whole ball game. We got to blow them out.
And maybe above all else, Joe Biden, as you know is a corrupt politician. They’ve known that for a long time. Now, they’ll never put that on air. They will say, “Cut the cameras. He called Joe Biden corrupt. Cut. Cut. We have to protect Joe.” They have big benefits with Joe. If Joe gets in, they get a lot of benefits that they won’t get with me.
He wants to destroy your energy jobs in Pennsylvania while his own son collected $183 a month, $183,000 a month. So Hunter has no energy experience. He has no job. He has no income. His father becomes vice-president and here’s just a few of the things he gets. $183,000 a month. Would anybody like that job? For a very bad type reputation, big energy company from Ukraine, right? He gets three and a half million dollars from Russia. From the wife of the mayor of Moscow, three and a half million dollars. What the hell did he do for that? He had no income, no job, no nothing. And then come the beauties. He got $1.5 billion to manage, because he’s a great manager of money. He had no job, no money, no nothing. $1.5 billion to manage, which is millions and millions of dollars from China.
I said to a friend of mine, the biggest on Wall Street, very smart guy. I said, “Is that possible to get that?” He said, “It’s not possible for my firm to get it.” He got one and took him approximately 10 minutes in dealing with the Chinese.
And then they will go for the big one, $10 million a year for introductory purposes. And when I say it, they go, “But you have no proof.” No, we do. We have stuff all over. But then they have a new excuse, a new excuse, Russia. It was Russia. Right here we go, again. Three years of it. Adam Schiff, the watermelon head, right? Upon information. I believe. I believe that the laptop from hell was created by Russia. I’ll tell you. Boy, some of these foreign countries, they must think Shifty Schiff, they must think we are nuts. Think of it. After go through all that. No collusion. They spent $48 million, no collusion. By people that hated me. If they had a stamp that had an R on it, they would have said, it’s collusion. Smart people. 18 crazy Democrats that were smart, vicious, violent. No collusion. 48 million they spent.
And now we hear about the laptop. The laptop from hell, that he brought in to be fixed. He forgot. That was a very expensive repair job. He didn’t pick it up. By the time he picked it up, it was too late. But here’s the thing. And they say, it’s Russia, Russia, Russia. I hope… Does anybody here believe it was Russia? You know who doesn’t believe it even more than you is the fake news media, but they’ll write it all the time. It’s a con job.
It was the greatest crime in the history of our country. And this could be the second. We caught them spying on my campaign. It was a treasonous act and we caught them. We have them. Let’s see what happens. We have very nice people. We have very nice people that don’t want to do anything before the election. Very nice. Very nice people. It’s okay to do it to me, but it’s not okay to do it to other people.
If Biden wins, China wins. And if China has anything to do with this whole deal, if he wins, let me tell you, China will own the United States of America. They will own it.
When we win, you win, Pennsylvania wins, and America wins. We’re going to have a big victory.
I don’t think China likes me much. And I’ve charged them tens of billions of dollars, billions and billions of dollars in taxes and in all sorts of things, tariffs. And I gave 28 billion to the farmers. There aren’t a lot of farmers here, I guess, right? Are you a farmer? Did you get a check? He’s a farmer. I got one farmer here.
But no, but I gave it to the farmers because they were targeted by China. $28 billion, two years, ’12 and ’16. $28 billion, I gave to our farmers because they were targeted. Nobody else would do that. What you would like is I charged a big tax on the dumped steel, right? They would dumping steel all over the place. Destroying your steel companies. I put a 25% tariff on that. And your steel companies started doing well again. It was very nice. Sleepy Joe won’t do that. In fact, Sleepy Joe said, we made it good deal with China, unfortunately the ink wasn’t dry before the plague came in. But I never took the tariffs off, nobody understands that. Never took it off. I wouldn’t take those tariffs away. Sleepy Joe said, “One of the first things I do is take the tariffs off.” Do you think China would like to see him get it? Boy, oh boy. They would love to see it.
If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you harder than anyone ever before.
So we have a couple of warriors here. They’re great people. They’re congressmen. And man did they fight for me. Congressman Dan Muser. Dan, thank you very much, Dan. A former Congressman, I’m sure you never heard of him. His name is Lou Barletta. And Lou Barletta is strongly against taking the statues of Christopher Columbus down. Would you say that’s right? Lou’s not a big fan of that. Right? And congressional candidate, who’s supposed to be fantastic, and a star, Lisa Scheller. Good. That’s great, Lisa. And somebody who’s done a fantastic job, campaign chair, Bernie Comfort. Bernie, Bernie. Hey Bernie, how are we doing? Looks good. Looks good. Looks very good. Harder to judge because you go in so late, but it’s looking good.
The places where they’ve casting and where they’re casting their vote, that’s not any more polling. You sort of know. They are really looking good. Bernie, you got to win. You don’t win I’ll fire you so fast, you have no idea.
I especially want to recognize the incredible truckers for Trump who were here tonight. Truckers. We love you guys. They’re truckers for Trump, they’re incredible people actually. I don’t know how they do it. Those are long hours driving down those highways. That’s long, that’s not easy.
And we got them some pretty good legislation that other people wouldn’t get them because they just don’t do those things. But we got them some pretty good legislation. So thank you very much, fellas. We appreciate it. The women and the men.
Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in United States history. My opponents insane immigration plan would eliminate us borders entirely by implementing nationwide catch and release. They want to have catch and release. You know what catch and release is, you catch them, they’re a murderer, they’re a rapist, and you release them. You know where you’re releasing them? Into our country.
Then Biden at the debate. He said, “No, no it’s okay because they come back for court.” Nobody comes back. They don’t come back. No, I ended catch and release. I didn’t like catching a murderer and releasing them. Now that wasn’t. We keep them out. We’re keeping them out. You can come into our country, but you have to come in legally and you have to come in through merit. His plan would also make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. Somebody like your governor, Tom Wolf would probably love it. You got to speak to him about this. He can’t do this kind of stuff. Called freedom of speech. Right? The Biden Harris plan would also increase refugees coming into our country by more than 700%. It would be the highest level anywhere in the world. That’s Bernie, that’s Crazy Bernie. They pled to terminate all national security travel bans, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. No, thank you. If you don’t mind, Joe. No, thank you. You saw what happened a few days ago in Paris, right? You saw that horrible attack. I’m keeping the terrorist, jihadist, and violent extremists, the hell out of our country. Is that okay? Do the truckers agree? Do the truckers agree? I think so. I think I have the truckers vote. That’s nice.
By the way, nice trucks. You think I could hop into one of them and drive it away. I’d love to just drive the hell out of here. Just get the hell out of this. I had such a good life. My life was great. And then I said, “Let’s do this, darling, this will be a lot of fun.” But you know what? I’m so happy with it because nobody has ever done so much in the first three and a half years. No one [inaudible 01:04:07].
We invested 2.5 trillion with a T trillion dollars. Now Biden would say 2.5 million. 2,500.
We love you. We love you.
Thank you. And I love you too. Thank you. I guess that’s why we’re all doing it together, right? When you get right down to it. We have a great country. We have to save our country. Most important election.
But we invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military. And we a thing called the Philadelphia Shipyard. Have you ever heard of it? We saved it. Anybody work there? We saved the Philadelphia Shipyard. We didn’t want to lose it. We also pass VA Choice and VA Accountability. Nobody said it was possible. For the vets.
And we just got a 91% approval rating from the vets, the highest ever. Remember all for years, you’d always see vets stories, how badly they were treated. Now you go see a doctor. We pay the bill. If you can’t, because we have great doctors there actually. But a lot of times it would take weeks before you could see a doctor. Now you go to a private doctor, we pay the bill. Nobody thought we could do that.
Exactly, one year ago today we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. And we took out the world’s number one, terrorist Soleimani is dead. And we took 100% of the ISIS caliphate. You know that 100%.
I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. One of the worst stupidest deals. This was John Kerry who liked to go bicycle riding. Remember? That’s the only thing that stopped him from finishing the deal sooner.
That’s the only thing that stopped him from finishing the deal sooner. They paid $150 billion, $1.8 billion in green, in cash, for nothing, for an agreement that expires very shortly if we didn’t terminate it. Time flies, right? For a short term agreement, they gave him $150 billion. The first call I get when we win will be from the head of Iran, let’s make a deal. Their economy is crashing. They will call and I want them to do well, but they can not have a nuclear weapon if it’s okay with you. If it’s okay with you, they can not have a nuclear weapon. Do we agree with that, Congressmen? But we want them to do well, but it will be the first call. I said, “We don’t want to negotiate.”
They got to see what happens, because they dream, also. China dreams, every country’s dreaming about it, Germany. There was a poll that Barack Hussein Obama is more popular in Germany than I am. But I agree with that. If I win those polls, then I’m not doing my job, right? When you think about it, no, they rip us. Everybody rips us. I recognize the true capital of Israel and open the American embassy in Jerusalem.
That was promised for decades and decades by every single president running for office promised that, and nobody did it, but me. Instead of… right? I’ve been… I’m the only one. Instead of never ending Wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. Three countries and they’re lined up. They’re lined up so beautiful to see. No blood in the sand, much less expensive. Now, we just got yesterday, sudan, you saw that. Got Bahrain, UAE, now, great. They’re lined up. They’re all set.
You know what? They’re tired. They’re tired of fighting all the time. Fight… they’re tired. We’re bringing our soldiers back from Afghanistan. All coming back. Many have already come back. A vote for Republicans… 19 years is enough. Do you agree? 19. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and the American dream, so vote for the American dream.
In conclusion, I hate to leave you, but in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already happening. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.
We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. Second amendment. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military mind. We’ve never had… I said 2.5 trillion. We have the greatest tanks and rockets and missiles and jets, F-35 superstealth, and tankers, and submarines, and our nuclear weapons are now tippy-top and hope to God you never have to use them. But we are the envy of the world. We are the envy of the world. Russia, China, North Korea, no matter where you go, our weapons are the envy of the world. Hope to God we never have to use it.
But we will ensure peace through strength. We will maintain American energy independence. We’re independent. Can you believe that? We have energy independence. First time. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed, ready to go January 1st. Lower drug prices even more. We have favored nations. We get the lowest in the world. Now we’re the highest, we go down to the lowest, the drug companies don’t exactly love me too much. Big pharma. They are doing more commercials than me than Biden times five. We will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. In God we trust. They wanted to take the word God out of their Pledge of Allegiance, you saw that. I watched that. I said, “They must’ve made typo.” They didn’t have in God, they didn’t have God. They took the word God out. I said, “What’s… ” Then when I watched it a second time, same thing happened. I said, “This is serious.” Then our country got very angry and it was incredible how quickly God got put back into… right? I put back Pledge of Allegiance.
God loves Trump.
Thank you. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for Pennsylvania. A man named Byron York, he’s a great writer. I find him to be a great writer. They know him very well. He did an article today. They were saying, “Who’s going to win?” He said, “I don’t know.” You have these incredible rallies. I’m not just talking about Trump rallies that just form. Car rallies, boat rallies… They just form without… By the way, trucker rallies, they have trucker rallies. It was very interesting. He said, and it’s true, “They’re organic. They just happen.” They had a big one yesterday on Long Island. They had a big one in New York city. He said, “It’s very intriguing.” You had a big one here. No, he said, “Yeah, I don’t know.” He said, “You better be careful. You better be careful.” Because he’s never seen anything like it. I’m not even talking about the rallies that we do. I’m talking about these are rallies in Iowa. They had thousands of tractors. They had tractors. The boat rallies are incredible.
For the last four years, you have seen me fight for you, and now I am relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country. On November 3rd, We must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all. We did it, but nobody told me this swamp was that deep and that dirty and that vicious. You get impeached for a perfect phone call. They impeach you for a perfect phone call. By the way, they had the laptop, as I call it, the laptop from hell. Based on that laptop, they should have never impeached, right? But they didn’t want to reveal a little thing like that. No, it was great. We had great loyalty from the Republican party. Great, great loyalty. It was really great. Get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get your coworkers and get the hell out to vote, please.
You know what? It’s going to be all over the country, not just in Pennsylvania. It’s going to be a great red wave. There already talking about it. Boom. It’s got to be a lot bigger than people understand. That’s what Byron was talking about. He said, “I don’t know, that’s never been…” There’s never been anything. There have never been rallies like this. There have never… We were in Ohio. We’re in Wisconsin. Yesterday, we were in New Hampshire. It was, I’m telling you, you had to see the biggest rallies that anyone’s ever seen. They go quickly. We give 24 hours notice, press a button. We’re going to be in New Hampshire. We’re going to be in Ohio, Wisconsin. We’re going to be someplace and boom. You have tens of thousands of people. There’s never been that before.
Sleepy Joe goes out, there’s like four people show up. They have no people. They can’t even fill up the circles. You know the circles? Barack Hussein Obama went out over the last three, four days. He’s drawing flies, flies. Now nobody’s going. Obama’s out and they will never show it. They don’t turn… See here, they never show the extent of it. They have the opposite. They never show it. They should show it because nobody is showing up to watch Barack Hussein Obama. See the red lights? See those red lights, all those red lights? That means you’re on live. Are you ready? They just turned them off because I was insulting. Look, they just went off. Can you believe it?
They’re tormented, the fake news. They’re tormented. In one way, they have to have it on because it’s ratings. It’s big, big, beautiful ratings. In another way, CNN hates when I say CNN is fake corrupt news. They hate it. You’ll see it go on and off a little bit. Now they just went off. Did you see that? Boom. Anytime I start talking, they say, “Now let’s go to a commercial break now, please.” No, they’re tormented because they want the ratings. Without it, they get terrible ratings. They want the ratings. They’re fantastic ratings. But at the same time, they don’t want to be talked about in a bad manner, right? But you have to talk about it because they’re corrupt. They have to report the news. They are the enemy of the people. They really are. They’re the enemy of the people.
For generations, America’s destiny was made in Fords and won in places like Bethlehem and Bristol, Scranton. By the way, he has nothing to do with Scranton. Altoona, Easton, and Allentown. They were tough American men and strong American women who gave their heart, sweat, and soul for their families, their country, and for freedom. We stand on the shoulders of the Pennsylvania Patriots who fought the battles, mined the coal, worked the assembly lines, loaded the rail cars, poured the steel that built the middle-class. It built the middle-class. Raised up our great skyscrapers, laid down the battleships, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country. Together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. Together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, our stock market. Your 401ks, let’s keep them up there. Don’t throw them away in two years and you’ll say, “The president told… The previous president told me that was going to happen. I don’t think that’s going to happen.” Your 401ks are hitting records. Does anybody have a 401k?
We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Go and vote. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you. What a group. What a group. We love this place. This was my first victory, right? This was our first victory. Remember that beautiful primary that we had and Trump came in and Trump won this incredible great state and it was off to the races, right? Off to the races. So I want to thank you and hello, New Hampshire. It’s great to be with you on this beautiful, on this beautiful day.
Nine days from now, we are going to win the state. Can you believe it? Nine days. And we’re going to win four more great years in the White House. We’re going to keep it going. This is the most important election in the history of our country, the most important election.
And I never thought I’d say it after what we went through with the last one four years ago, this is a more important election because we’re fighting people that we’ve got to end it. We’ve got to end the fight. We’ve got to put them down. We’ve got to end the fight. Our country will never be a socialist country. We have to end the fight once and for all.
For the last half century sleepy Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in the endless, horrible, ridiculous foreign wars. Afghanistan, 19 years, 19 years. He voted for the war in Iraq. But for himself, did you know today? You know what happened, right? He put the lid on. You know what the lid is? He’s constantly putting the lid on, constantly putting the lid on.
The lid means, I guess it’s referring to a garbage can, right? You put the lid. And he’s putting the lid on. This guy has more lids. I don’t know. There’s something going on. Somebody said it’s strategy. It’s not not, because really strategy would be coming out. And by the way, a lot of things are happening lately. You been noticing? Have you been noticing?
I just was asking some people to go back to the fake news and go to the back of the plane. A lot of people up there, a lot of cameras. And I was saying, ” And I wish those cameras would show behind the cameras.” There were thousands of people there, thousands of people there, and thousands of people outside on the street, thousands.
There are thousands of people outside. But have you been noticing what’s been happening? People know we’ve done a great job. What’s going to happen? This is going to be as exciting, maybe, I don’t know, you can say more exciting. You remember that beautiful night in November four years ago? Well, I don’t think this one will be as close. I don’t think this is going to be as close. Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
No, that’s a chant. In all fairness, I said, “Has anyone in the history of politics,” think about it, Ronald Reagan was popular, but they never had that chant. That is a chant. I won’t even say it because I don’t want to cry, but Ronald Reagan never had that chant. Nobody’s ever had that chant, and you see what we go through. It’s a tough thing. The swamp is deep and it’s vicious. These people are vicious. These people don’t report the truth. It’s very hard. They don’t report the truth. So for instance, I asked them, “Would you please turn the cameras around?” They don’t do that. They never do. They have this shot all the time. I don’t have that big an ego. I don’t want that shot. They have this shot. You know what they show? They show myself and about five people back there. And on occasion, some of the people back there become big stars because they are on camera.
But they never move the camera, and I used to think it was the way it is. You couldn’t move it, mechanically you couldn’t do it. And then all of a sudden, we don’t see that anymore. I shouldn’t say it, but we don’t see it anymore. They used to have little fights, right? Little problem. And the camera used to turn like a pretzel to catch it because they viewed that as a bad thing, right, a bad thing.
And that camera would turn around. That steel would turn like there’s nothing to it, but they never show the crowds. But you know what? They don’t show Biden’s crowd when seven people show up. And you know what? They don’t show Barack Hussein Obama. He came out to campaign two days ago. Right? And they had 42 people. He drew flies. Did you ever hear the expression? Obama drew flies.
But they don’t show that. But we want them to show our crowds because there’s never been anybody, and this is us as a group, anybody, any group, any movement that’s ever gotten the kind of crowds that we have. And I was told about New Hampshire. I have a lot of friends that live up here, but I understand New Hampshire. I was told in New Hampshire, you can’t have big crowds. You have to go to everybody’s dining room and have dinner with them. This was even as I was campaigning. I said, “I’m sorry. It just doesn’t work. You got to get together and all.” And you have guys, they have nothing much to do. They’re politicians, and they’ll go and have dinner with two or three people every night. And they’ll do this for years. And then they come in seventh in the primary or something.
I said, “No, we got to do this.” And we’ve been doing this from the beginning. You have the good arena that holds a lot of people, and we pack that all the time. But now with the COVID, what we do, and they keep talking about cases. You know why we have cases so much? Because that’s all we do is test.
If we cut our testing down in half, they’d say, well, they wouldn’t say that, but cases would go down. No, we have the best testing and we are coming around. We’re rounding the turn. We have the vaccines. We have everything. We’re rounding the turn. Even without the vaccines we’re rounding the turn. It’s going be over.
And you know who got it? I did. Can you believe it? Every time I’d have these meetings, a lot of people, because I can’t put myself in a basement for the next year and a half. Okay? I can’t do it. No I can’t. Or I can’t go to a beautiful bedroom in the White House and lock myself up for a year and a half. You’re president. You have to do your job.
And I’d have meetings and I’d leave meetings, and I’d leave a meeting, and I’d say, “That wasn’t good.” A lot of people and there’s a lot of love in the rooms a lot of times. A lot of times there’s no love at all, just the opposite. But I’d say, “That might not be good,” but you got to do your job. And I went and what they do is incredible. The doctors are incredible, and especially when you’re president, because you have more doctors.
I don’t know if I could ever get used to this again, going back to a normal where you actually have one doctor. You have a doctor for every single part of your body. It’s true. And they want to touch it, too. They want to grab you. ” Sir, I’m a specialist in this. Could I check this?” I said, “I’d prefer not.”
But I didn’t feel good and wonderful doctors. Sean, White House doctors, terrific. They’re all really talented people, but I had 12 of them, literally 12. Johns Hopkins. I had doctors from the best schools, the best hospitals in the world because you’re president, right? And I said, “I’m not feeling too good, fellows. What are we going to do here?”
And the following morning, I took something called Regeneron. The following morning, I felt so good. I felt like Superman. I wanted to get back. I didn’t want to cancel anything.
Super Trump. Super Trump. Super Trump. Super Trump. Super Trump. Super Trump.
Now we didn’t want to be canceling. We didn’t want to be canceling a lot of things, right? Like Biden. I mean, I don’t know what the hell’s wrong with him. He never goes anywhere. And when he does, it’s Delaware. Now, I like Delaware too. But he just wants to say right next to that house. He feels very uncomfortable. Yesterday, he did some kind of a crazy rally with the horns, right? And then the camera made a terrible mistake. The guy’s going to get fired, I’m sure, because the camera turned around and there were so few, there was nobody there. And then he got very agitated, right? You saw that, because you know who was there? Our people were there. Right?
And they were screaming and he can’t think too well. He was having a hard time. And he got very angry. And Obama got angry too, because he went out someplace and it was all our people. And today they’re having this incredible rally on long Island. What’s happened to New York is so sad with the crime. Democrat run. Only Democrat run. Where you have Democrat run, you have problems. You have crime. It’s all closed up in many cases, locked down, locked down.
By the way, you have an excellent governor here, right? You have an excellent governor. Can I say that? Good. Sometimes I’ll say that and people don’t like it, but you do. You have a good governor, good guy, and he’s with us. And the family is good. And his father is great. His father, I’d see that name Sununu. I said, “Man, he was brutal. He was tough.”
And once we won, there was nobody better than him. There was nobody rougher and there was nobody better. But it’s a good family. They really are. They’ve done a good job and you’re opened up and you’re doing business and here we are, here we are. But Biden has the lid on again. I guess he figures if he keeps the lid on, he’s not going to make a stupid statement.
He made one yesterday. Yesterday he said, “I’m getting tired of smart people.” No, you got to like smart people. Right? He said that, then he said something much worse. Right? He talked about the fact that we have the most corrupt. He didn’t mean that. They didn’t mean that. But I think maybe we’ll put a clip up. We have a new deal. Oh, there it is.
See that little screen? That costs a lot of money. And if we like you, like we do the great state of New Hampshire, if we like you, like we do New Hampshire, we put that up and we have a couple of little clips, like he’s against social security, little things like that. How about his oil comment?
And I said, “It took all the way to the end. He was doing okay. I wouldn’t say it was Winston Churchill, but he was doing all right. He was getting through it.” And then all of a sudden it came out, the oil, and he wants to transition. He wants a transition. I said, “Okay, are you listening, Texas? Are you listening, Pennsylvania?”
Actually, are you listening? You know why? Because your bills. Because of New York, you have the highest energy bills in the country, New Hampshire, all of new England, because they won’t allow, we’re going to do it anyway, but they won’t allow a pipeline to go through New York up to new England. You know that, right? And because of that, and all it would do is cause jobs because upstate New York has been an economic disaster under Cuomo and people are leaving.
But think of it. A pipeline that nobody would see, way underground, would reduce your energy costs by 50, 60, 70%. And Governor Cuomo won’t allow it. So we’re having a little bit of a dispute, and this should’ve been done years ago. I get stuck with everything. I get stuck. But we’ll get it done, we’ll get it done. If we do that, we can get your energy cost down 50%, 60%. So it means a lot to everybody.
Sleepy Joe. Are you turning the cameras around? Could I ask you to turn, because you have never seen. People don’t even believe it. Look at them. Look at them. People don’t even believe it. I only get disappointed because honestly, the media, the fake news, is too close to me. If they were further back, we’d get more people up here, my people. I’m saying this to my representatives. If they move that back, they have magnifying lenses that are very good. If you move them back, you can have people. They wouldn’t be blocked out by the fake news.
Our lives are blocked out by the fake news, right? But Sleepy Joe voted for NAFTA, which was the worst thing that ever happened to your state and all of new England more than any place. Your factories are still, some of them, empty. And China’s entry into the world trade organization. He shuttered your factories, shipped away your industries, and he allowed deadly drugs.
One thing I learned more than any other place, New Hampshire drugs. For some reason, you get hit harder than anybody else. We brought it down 19%. We took it down. Now, we got set back because when the plague came in, all of a sudden we’re looking at different things, but we got it down 19%. I met with your police. We went to the precincts. For some reason, your drug problem, opioids, everything else, is greater than most other states proportionately.
And we focused very hard in New Hampshire. We got it down 19%. It’s coming down further. Had a setback when the plague came in from China, but we got it down to 19 and we’re going to get it down a hell of a lot lower than 19 before we’re finished, believe me.
And he allowed drugs, deadly drugs, really deadly drugs, opioids, and fentanyl to pour across our borders and flood into to your schools and your towns and communities, and more in New Hampshire proportionately, as I said, than any other place. In 2016, you voted to fire the depraved political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president who is finally putting America first. This is not the crowd that comes in second, okay? When you leave, it’s like a poll, right, except much more accurate, when you leave a place like this, where you have thousands and thousands of people and more people than all of this outside, unfortunately. Can’t get in, which I feel badly about. We put speakers out there, but they can’t get in.
But when you leave, you say, “This is not a state where you’re going to come in second.” It’s just not because come in second. If Joe came in, even if he came in in that beautiful Air Force One, is that beautiful? I’ll tell you a quick. We have plenty of time today, right? Is there any football game? We don’t watch football as much anymore, right?
Until they stand and honor our country, we don’t do it. Until they honor that. But, when I first came in, I said, “How old is Air Force One?” Now we have the greatest people in the world in our military. They’re incredible. Look at the condition. That plane looks like it’s two days old, right? But it’s 30 years. Can you believe it?
So I said, “So what’s going on?” “Well, they’re negotiating with one and they signed a contract for $5.7 billion.” It’s actually two planes. People don’t realize this. Air Force One is two planes, okay? You always have two. You’re very spoiled when you have this job. I guess they figure if it’s ever a little bit off for a little broken, you just rip out the second one for two and a half billion.
But it’s a most incredible machine. So anyway, so I said, “Well, but 30 years is a long time.” I’m not talking about for me. I’m talking it’s long time. And I’m good at airplanes, okay? Been very good at airplanes. I said, “So what’s the price?” “5.7 billion.” I said, “You got to be kidding.” For two airplanes, okay? I have friends they order a gulf stream and they pay $ 78 million. I said, “Half of an engine costs more than that.”
So 5.7. So I met with the head of Boeing, good man, and I said, “This is the first week.” I said, “We’re not going to buy it.” Signed contract, all done. 5.7 billion. I said, “Too much money. We’re not buying it.” They said, “Why do you say it’s too much?” I said, “Because Obama agreed to it, so it has to be too much.” It’s the only thing I knew. I didn’t know anything about it. I didn’t know anything about it, but I knew if they were buying it, it was too much money.
So I said, “Nope, I’m not going to do it.” I said, “Cancel the order.” So I went to a general, I said, “General, I want to cancel the order.” “Yes sir.” And I said, “Why can’t we keep using this 30 years, sir?” And he’s right. Look, planes would come in from especially other countries, but from Arab countries, and it would be a brand new, what’s called a 747 800. That’s brand new right off the thing. It’s actually a much different plane. It’s much longer. It’s got a much bigger wingspan. You wouldn’t believe it. See the top the way it is? It’s a much longer top.
I hope you people are interested in this. No, isn’t this better than being on a teleprompter, right? No, but see the front? It’s second floor is much longer. As beautiful as that is, it’s far more beautiful, bigger, more impressive, more everything, and it’s the right thing. So I said, “So general, it’s a signed contract. I want to terminate the contract.” “Yes sir.”
I said, “By the way, you can terminate it no problem, right?” “Yes, sir. Very proud of it, sir.” “Good. You don’t have to pay anything, do you?” “Yes, sir. We have a termination fee.” “Oh. How much is the termination fee, general?” “Sir? We pay $250 million then we’re allowed to terminate the contract. It’s 5.7 billion. So for 250 million … ”
I said, “Wait a minute, general, wait. Wait, wait. They haven’t built it yet. They haven’t even started it yet. We have to pay $250 million to terminate the contract? I don’t like that deal, general. General, don’t terminate it, because I want to get it. But I don’t want to pay 250. Just don’t terminate it. Just tell them we don’t want it.” “Yes, sir.” So he told them.
Then I told them, I said, “Nope, I don’t want it.” And we negotiated for about a month. And I said to the head of Boeing, really good guy, I said, ” Hey Dennis, look, it’s five, seven. It’s got to have a three in front of it.” Now I don’t know anything about it. And it’s very, very special. What they have in this plane they don’t have in any plane in the world, okay? This is incredible, the kind of equipment. The equipment costs more than the plane.
So I said, “No, Dennis. It has to have a three in front of it. So this has 5.7, a five.” I said, “Got to have it. In other words, we got to skip the fours. We got to have a three.” “No sir. I can’t do it.” So then he comes back a couple of weeks later. He takes a hundred million off. I said, “Nope, it’s got to have a three.” I said, “Cancel it. I don’t care.” “Don’t cancel it in writing.” I said, “We don’t want the planes.” I was very careful. “We don’t want the planes.” “Are you canceling the order?”
I said, “No, no, no. We don’t want the plane,” because I don’t want to pay 250 of your money, if you don’t mind. And by the way, I could tell you about 300 of these stories, all right? These are stories that are all different things. This one, I just see the plane sitting there so beautiful. So I said, “No, we don’t want the plane.” Now I can’t really go to Europe and order the comparable plane because there is no comparable plane, but I can’t. I can’t say, “I’m going to buy it in Europe. I’m going to buy Air Force One in Europe.” Somehow that doesn’t work, so I can’t. I said, “No, we’re going to get used to this. We’re going to have this plane. We’ll fix it up. It’ll be just fine.”
So time goes by and they raise it. They bring it down another couple of hundred. They bring it down another couple. And then all of a sudden it started dropping like a rock. And we agreed to 3.95. Somebody said, “Well, that must be a totally different plane.” Nope. In fact, I actually had one generator added.
It’s not a big deal, one generator added. Then Boeing came to me. So is 3.9, as opposed to 5.7. Now that took about two months, three months. But isn’t it really nice, right? The same exact plane, except with a different paint job. Our plane is going to be as beautiful as …
… except with a different paint job. Our plane is going to be as beautiful as that looks, Jackie O. Our plane is going to be red, white, and blue. Doesn’t that make sense? Red white. And then they came to me and the general came to me. The general came to me and he said, “Sir, I know the way you like everything to be perfect. And sir, instead of coming down, see the big stairway on the left, you’re really up there. When you’re at that stairway, you’re on a three story building, right. And sir, if it’s rainy or bad weather or it’s blowing,” and I’m thinking about my hair, right. Oh, sometimes by the time I get down the big one, the little one is a different deal, but the big one, which we use 95%, by the time I come down that big stairway, sometimes I am wiped out. The wind is blowing. I said, “Is there any wind outside?” Yes sir. 50 miles an hour. That’s good.
The stairs are shaking. I’m shaking. The whole thing. By the time I get into the car, I end up running the last… By the time I get into that car, I’m wiped out. Okay, I got to say, “Does anybody have a mirror?” So the general said, “Sir, we can build a new stairway under the plane, sir. It’s a spiral stairway.” I said, “Wow, that’s a great idea.” You’d be totally protected, sir. I said, “Fantastic. How much?” 50. I said, “Wow, 50. That’s a great deal. I’ll take it.” I said, “I’ll take it.” I said, “By the way, so for $50,000, I can build.” No, sir, $50 million. I said, “I don’t want this stairway for $50 million.” I tell you this because you people understand business. No, he said, “We can build it for 50.” I thought he meant $50,000. That’s a lot of money for a stairway. No, we can do it for 50 million.
So if you don’t mind, I decided let my hair get messed up, right. So that’s the story. That’s a long story on the beautiful Air Force One. So we have it coming in and can you imagine after all that I better win this damn contest. Can you imagine if I saw Sleepy, Joe? He wouldn’t even know it’s a different plane. He’d get on. Oh this is very nice. Where am I? Where am I? You’re on Air Force One. Oh, I didn’t know that. This is very nice. How old is this plane, he’d say? I’d say, “Brand new, sir. It’s brand new. Just…” If I see that gorgeous, you have to see the striping. It’s incredible. There’ll be nothing like it. And I don’t want to see it. He won’t appreciate it. He won’t appreciate it because he won’t understand it. But anyway, so that’s the story that I tell. I could tell a hundred stories like that.
It’s all the same. The waste, it’s all the same. And it was all coming together and then we had to spend $3 trillion on the plague. Can you believe it? With all of that peanuts we’re talking, we had to spend and we signed a trade deal with China, which was so great, but the ink wasn’t dry when we got hit by the China plague and we’ll never forget it. We’ll never forget it. You watch. Sleepy Joe Biden doesn’t care about New Hampshire. I saw that. He left this state before the primary was even over. He abandoned you. He likes to say Pennsylvania. Well, he left them too when he was nine years old. And based on the polls, I’m seeing the people of Pennsylvania understand that very much. And as I said at the very beginning, a lot of strange things. We’re way up in Florida.
We’re doing fantastic in Iowa, fantastic in North Carolina. We think really good in Pennsylvania. We’re doing great in the great state of Texas and these aren’t poles. These are people now. Now you don’t need polls so much. These are people. We’re doing great all over. Georgia is looking very good. We’re doing great all over. This could be a very interesting evening on November 3rd. Now the biggest risk we have are the fake ballots. To me, they send millions of ballots all over the country. They found some in a garbage can, military ballots. The name Trump was written in by the military and they found them in a garbage can, thousands and thousands, 500,000 incorrect applications in Virginia, thousands and thousands of things.
I say the biggest risk we have are the fake ballots. I voted yesterday in Florida and I went and I voted in person because I like to vote in person, call me old fashioned, but a lot of our people want to vote in person. They want to vote. So I went to Florida. Sir, do you have identification? They said that. And no, and they didn’t mean to be rude. They want to go through like they would. I took out a passport. I gave them a passport. I took out an ID. Wouldn’t it be nice to have voter ID by the way?
So the woman who was great, very smart. And I gave her the passport. I gave her the ID. She said, “Sir, I think you might be President Trump.” Okay, so I qualify. And then I sat and they gave me the voting thing slips, very computerized, very good. I went through everyone. They said, “Sir, is this it?” Yes. Good. And then I signed my name on something else. Sir, you can go to the booth and please, here’s a pad. You can keep it secret. I said, “I don’t want to keep it secret. I voted for Donald Trump.” I don’t want to keep it secret. Now if I voted for Sleepy Joe, that would be a story, right. That I would want to keep secret. [inaudible 00:05:55].
No, but I went in, the people were fantastic. And I went in, really professional people, great people. I went in, I took it. I took it out of the folder. I mean, they wanted me to put it in a folder just to walk it 20 feet to a machine. I took it out. I put it in that. I put it in again, two pages, certain things they had and a lot of different races, the presidency and other races, good races, congressperson, good races. Put them in. And I said, “Wow, there was no cheating. There was no way you could cheat. There was no way anything could go wrong. It was like a perfect deal.” Now, they send. Think of that.
So that’s one way. The other way they send millions of ballots. We don’t know who’s sending them. We don’t know where they’re going. We don’t know who’s bringing them back. We don’t know who signed them. In Nevada, they want to have a thing where you don’t have to have any verification of the signature. It is so terrible. And you know who knows it more than us? The Democrats, all Democrat run states are the ones that are the problem and they know it. And they say, “He’s against our freedom. He’s against our freedom.” No, no. I want to have a real election. I don’t want to have millions of votes sent to millions of different people. And I call them unsolicited. I say, “Solicited is good.” That’s where you write in. You want, they send it to you, et cetera, which still is not as good as being there, but it’s pretty good.
But when you have unsolicited, meaning you don’t want them, they call them universal. I said, “That name doesn’t make sense.” What does it mean? It doesn’t mean anything. They call it different names. I came up with a name. They have millions of unsolicited ballots being sent all over and it’s no good. It’s no good. And there’s tremendous. Every day you pick up the newspaper and you read about the only good thing is we have people watching them like crazy, both law enforcement and yourselves and everybody, but in Philadelphia, which is notorious for what goes on, we want to have poll watchers. They won’t let us have poll watchers. So we’re in court over poll watchers. Why won’t they let you have a poll watcher? What’s wrong? Think of it. What’s wrong? Philadelphia has been unbelievable. When a candidate, very wonderful candidate happened to lose very badly, Ren, a number of years ago and a man named Mitt Romney. Did anybody ever hear of Mitt Romney? He did so badly in Philadelphia. Almost nobody voted for him. Now you know that’s not so, but they gave almost no votes for him, almost nothing. And you know that’s not so and it’s not right. And we want poll watchers in Philadelphia and they won’t let us have them so we’re in court. But think of it, when they won’t let you have a poll watcher, what’s that all about? What’s that all about? So we’re watching it very closely, but I was really impressed yesterday in Florida because there was no way there could be any cheating. There was no way. These people were great. The system is great and there was no way you’re voting twice, you’re voting 20 times or you’re not voting at all. It was a beautiful thing to see, but the ballots are not that way.
The ballots get handled by many, many people by the time they even get there and it shouldn’t be allowed. And the Democrats know it’s a hoax and they know and it’s going to cause problems. Then we have a ruling from a court. I won’t say which court, a ruling that the ballots can go beyond November 3rd and then they can take time too, in the state of Pennsylvania, which we love, which we think we’re going to win. I love Pennsylvania. I won it the last time against crooked Hillary, right. It was the first time in a long time that somebody won. And we have a situation where they have their ballots and they have a long time to count the ballots. A lot of bad things will happen during that period of time. Terrible things will happen, crooked, dishonest things. But that means that Pennsylvania, a major state, an important state, very important to me, I’m there all the time.
I went to school there, Pennsylvania. So if we don’t know the result on November 3rd, that means unlike has always been where you generally find out the election that night or soon, we could be going on forever with this. It’s the craziest thing. And it’s frankly, it’s a crazy ruling and we shouldn’t let it happen. We shouldn’t let it happen. I think that’s my biggest fear. My biggest risk for this election is the unsolicited, the millions of unsolicited ballots they’re sending out. In California, they’re sending millions and millions and millions of ballots. People are getting ballots that don’t want them. People are getting ballots that don’t even know why they’re getting them. It’s a terrible thing. Sleepy Joe Biden works for big tech and big donors.
And I’ll tell you, when you watch what’s happened, how he’s being protected because you see what’s going on. He is a corrupt politician. And one of the reasons, and I would say the primary reason he’s put the lid on again is because he can’t answer the questions. No, he can’t answer these questions. He goes to China, the family makes a fortune. He goes to Ukraine, his son gets put on a board for $183,000 a month. How about Russia? Russia, the wife of the mayor of Moscow pays him three and a half million dollars for the son and then he has stuff that he has to give his father 10%. Then he has another one where it’s 50%. What the hell is going on? Terrible. And then the media refuses to write it. They refuse except for the New York Post by the way, who’s stock has gone way up. I have a lot of respect for the New York Post. What they’ve done is incredible.
So I’m not just running against Joe Biden, I’m running against the left wing media and Silicon Valley, censors who want to manipulate and control the American people. No, it’s unbelievable. And if you say anything bad about Biden, they block you, they take you down or they make it so you can’t go on any of these sites, Twitter or any of them. It’s unbelievable. Some high quality people. They put up a story from the New York Post, fourth largest newspaper in the country and the oldest by far founded by Alexander Hamilton, somebody puts up a story about this Biden corruption, which is incredible, and they block the story and take down his site. It’s unbelievable. The great Charlie Kirk, Charlie Kirk, but many of them. With your vote, we will continue to fight for American workers, lower drug prices. We are bringing drug prices down, way down. It’s already happened.
Support our great police, protect the 2nd Amendment, defend our borders that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that very beautiful phrase made in the USA like the old days, right. We go back to the old days sometimes. Made in the USA, people used to be so proud of that. We are again.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, groundbreaking therapies, the therapies are unbelievable. By the way, here I am. Now, I don’t know, maybe I didn’t need it. Maybe I didn’t need it, but I’m happy. I took that Regeneron. Regeneron, Superman, and a safe vaccine. And we have many of our greatest companies and labs are coming out very quickly with the vaccines. They’re doing great. Very shortly, very quickly. It’s going to be delivered fast. That will quickly end the pandemic. It’s ending anyway. We’re rounding the turn, but the vaccine will get it down fast because we want normal life to resume, normal life. We just want normal. Normal life, normal life. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Last year, New Hampshire had by far the best year economically that you’ve ever had. And I can say that for I think every state in the Union. I really think just about, I don’t have to go check.
I don’t have to be like Joe, where he has no idea. You just say no, it’s uniform. I think just about every state in the Union and you see what’s happening now. We have a super V. We’re recovering at a level, housing starts. The Atlanta Fed just predicted, now this is not a forecast by me, this is the Atlanta Fed, that GDP will rise for the third quarter, which will end by the way. I think the number will be produced on November 1st, which is just before, but hopefully you’ll have voted by that time. That’s the crazy thing. Everybody will have voted before some of this incredible news comes in, but the news has been very good anyway. They’re predicting GDP up 35%. Nobody’s ever had that, right.
I think 8%. I don’t know what the record is, but like eight or nine or something maybe as a record, but this is 35% up, faster than any other country anywhere in the world. We went down less and we’ve gone up faster. So within my first year in office, I delivered the largest tax cuts and reform in the history of our country. We cut taxes $2,200 a year so that’s for the typical American family. We doubled the child tax credit $1,000 a child, and we increased median household income to the highest levels ever recorded. Highest. Then we had to close it up, save millions of lives, at least 2 million lives, and now we’re opening it up. The radical Biden Harris agenda. What do you think of Harris? Oh boy. More liberal than Crazy Bernie, could you believe it? So you have Crazy Bernie. He’s crazy, there’s no question, but he’s a good sport. He’s a great sport. No, no. Have you ever seen anybody lose so much and be so happy about it?
It’s happened now twice. Is Bernie running again in four years? Media, is Bernie Sanders projected to run again in four years? I think so. He’ll be up there. One thing about him, he fights. He fights, but he somehow doesn’t mind losing because Elizabeth Warren, a neighbor of yours. No, Elizabeth Warren super radical left, not as bad as Bernie, and by the way, not even close to Kamala, but if she would have, and I say all the time, if she would have left because she was gone. She was gone. If she would have left before Super Tuesday, Bernie would have won every single state that Sleepy Joe. He was shocked when he won. They said, “Joe, you won.” What? What? I did? How? What happened?
Well, Elizabeth Warren stayed in the race, Joe. So when people voted, they voted, they split the vote. So Bernie Sanders would’ve gotten all of it. He didn’t have to get all. If he got just a few of her votes, he would’ve won everything. I mean, literally, but he would’ve gotten almost all of them. He said, “Oh, okay. Explain? How does that work?” They said, ” Forget it Joe.” He wanted to know how that worked. The radical Biden Harris agenda is projected to slash the typical American’s income. And you saw this in the Wall Street Journal, income by $6,500 a year over a short period of time. And also, it will destroy at least 5 million jobs. Joe Biden is promising the largest tax hike in American history. This is the first time, I said it last night, we were in Ohio. We were in Wisconsin, we were in North Carolina. I’m doing three or four of these suckers a day. That’s not bad, right.
And he’s got the lid on every… I said, “Where is he campaigning?” Sir, he’s decided. You can’t have a president in this world where you have President Xi, President Putin, Kim Jong-Un, and lots of people. You cannot have a low energy president. Now, there’s a reason he’s got the lid and I’m trying to figure it out. And I have a feeling it’s because of the corruption because he can’t have. Did you see where he walked out in primetime right after it happened holding ice cream, right? And the press asked him, “What flavor is it, sir? What flavor?” Uh, I think it’s vanilla and chocolate. That was the question. They don’t ask me questions like that. What flavor, sir? I don’t think he likes me too much. We better win. No, he’s not a nice guy. He’s not. No, people that knew him in primetime.
People that knew him in primetime. He was never a nice guy, phony guy. He was never a nice guy. I don’t think he’s a nice guy, but now he’s probably more agitated than ever before. Biden’s $4 trillion tax increase is a missile aimed at the heart of the middle-class and middle-class families. That’s all it is. You’re going to lose all your jobs. These companies are all going to go back where they came from. We brought in tremendous numbers of companies. I mean, look at the auto business. We hadn’t had a factory in 40 years and now they’re opening up all over Michigan, all over the place. Ohio, North Carolina, South Carolina. I’d say to the Prime Minister Abe, a great, great gentleman who retired. He had a problem, medical problem, but he retired. I’d say, “Shinzo, you got to open some factories in Michigan. You got to open up some factories in the US. I don’t care where, you’re going to open up factories, Shinzo. You’re selling too many cars made in Japan. You got to make them in the US.”
Then he’d say, “Well, I don’t do that. I mean, look, we don’t have anything to do with that. This is done by the private sector.” I said, “Shinzo, you’re a powerful man. You can do it.” I really can’t. I said, “You have to do it.” Next day, they announced five companies were opening up factories so that was the end of that. And he’s a great guy, Shinzo, and I hope he’s going to be well. He was a great leader of Japan. In my second term, I will pass another historic middle class tax cut. It’s already… Biden, all my life I’ve been studying politics. I watched it. I was on the other side. I was a contributor to like everybody. They came to my office. I was a contributor to everybody. And they would come in, but all my life I watched and I’d watch Texas. And I’ve never seen this before where somebody goes, “We will raise your taxes. Vote for me.” No, it’s never happened. I’ve always watched politicians. We will cut your taxes. We will cut your taxes. We will cut your taxes.
Biden gets up, “We will raise your taxes.” And people say, ” Oh.” A lot of people don’t get it. They’ll go like, “Oh, did I hear that right?” No, he’s going to raise your taxes. So Biden wants to eliminate oil. Think of it in Texas. You saw him in the debate the other night. Now, he can’t get away with that. I said, “So tell me, because he almost made it.” And then that last question got him. And Kristin, who is not particularly in my camp, I thought she did a good job to be honest. I thought she did a good job. She looks at him. She goes, “Why would you do that?” And then I said, “Yeah, why would you do that?” And unfortunately for his party, he said he will transition out of oil. And I said, “Are you listening, Texas, right? Are you listening Pennsylvania? And are all the people in the country because we have an energy independent country right now.” And once we get New Hampshire and New England, the pipeline cutting across New York, which we’re very close to getting, you will have energy prices that will be low, very low. Very low. And nobody else will be able to get that pipeline, that I can tell you, nobody else. That means that no heat in New Hampshire winters. $5 a gallon gasoline, much more than that I think. Think of it, what are you now? $2. And you’ll go under $2, right, $2, right.
Armenia for Trump.
Armenia, you know Armenia? We’re working on that. You know we’re working. We did it with Kosovo and Serbia. Do you believe I got three nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize? Can you believe it? The Middle East, we’re doing peace. I did it the opposite way of what these fools did for years. We just signed the third Sudan yesterday. We signed. So we will have Bahrain, UAE, United Arab Emirates led by a great gentleman, a great leader, a great warrior, actually…
Led by a great gentleman, a great leader, a great warrior, actually, Muhammad. And yesterday we got Sudan. I mean, no blood in the sand, no cost, no this, no that. The opposite way. And then we got one, Serbia. We had Serbia, because this relates to Armenia. We had Serbia, Kosovo. We’re doing a trade deal. I said, “Wait a minute. These people, right, Serbia, these people have been killing themselves. They’ve been killing each other for years and years and decades. And we’re dealing with both of them unrelated.” I said, “Fellas, if you don’t get your act together, we’re not going to deal with you. What the hell do we have to deal for? We don’t have to. We’re doing trade deals.” I said, “Wait a minute.” They’ve been fighting each other and killing each other for years. I told my people, “Tell them they got to work a deal. Otherwise, we’re not going to do a deal with either of them.” Cost us nothing.
And you know what? They hugged and they kissed in the Oval Office and they were so happy. And this is after many years. Nobody thought they could come together. Nobody thought they’d come together. That deal was worse than Israel, if you think about it, and the Palestinians. Israel and the Palestinians, they say can’t, it’ll come together. It’ll come together. We stopped paying. We used to give the Palestinians $750 million a year. And I said, “Look, we’re not going to pay you if you’re not going to make a deal. Why would we pay?” And other people said that was a terrible thing. It wasn’t a terrible thing because they’d say death to America, death to Israel, et cetera, et cetera. And now they want to talk. They all want to talk. So we have three countries. We have many countries lined up. You’ll end up with peace in the Middle East with nothing but for nothing. And a neighbor of yours, John Kerry, said two years ago, “It would be impossible to do the deal that way.” No, no. That’s the only way you can do the deal. It’s all coming together beautifully. We’re going to have peace in the Middle East. What we’ve done is pretty amazing. But with Serbia, Kosovo, so we signed a deal. So they gave me a Nobel Prize for that. They gave me a Nobel Prize for something else. They should give me a Nobel Prize for what I did in Syria. When I say Nobel Prize, nomination, I don’t know. I don’t know.
But with Serbia. So now we have Armenia. Look at the Armenia. They are incredible people. They’re fighting like hell, right? They’re fighting like hell. And you know what? We’re going to get something done because, thank you. And I love you, too. You know the Armenians have had a tough go. In fact, I was in yesterday, Ohio, actually. I was in Ohio because I went to various stops. But in Ohio we had a tremendous group of Armenians with the flag and the whole thing, the spirit. And the problems that they have and the death and the fighting and everything else, we’ll get that straightened out. I call that an easy one. Okay? We’ll get that. Go back and tell your people. Go back and tell your people. All right? We’ll get that straightened out. Armenia. Why not? It’s easy. If you know what you’re doing, it’s like that. If you know what you’re doing, it’s easy. But we will.
But think of that, with Kosovo, Serbia I said, “Well, we’re doing these two. We’re not doing either deal unless they put it together.” And they actually, they both came back. The prime ministers, they came back, they were in the Oval Office two weeks ago, hugging and kissing. It was an incredible thing, very historic. And what are we doing? We’re saving a lot of lives. We’re saving a lot of good people from being killed. See, normally I wouldn’t tell you all this stuff, but we’re in the afternoon. Where are we going from here? There’s no more NFL that you watch. Where the hell are we going?
Biden has also vowed. Do you think sleepy Joe would be doing these things? I don’t think so. I don’t think. He’ll go back to bed. Hillary used to spend a lot of time in bed too, but she had more energy than him. She did. They said, “What’s the difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Biden?” I said, “Well, obviously they’re both crooked, but let’s get out of that.” The big difference is she had more energy, but not much. And she’s a more intelligent person. I will say that. She’s a much more intelligent person. Until she used the word deplorables, I thought she was very smart. Biden has also vowed to impose the highest business tax rate in the developed world on companies that created jobs in our country. They came over here. They created jobs. They’ll be gone in two minutes. It would trigger a mass exodus of companies and jobs out of America and back into the places they came for or other places. That’s what happens. They would leave.
And we don’t want people to leave. We want them to stay. And we want those jobs and we want that income. You’ve had them leave already under NAFTA. Biden also pledged to eliminate our tariffs on China. We’re taking in tens of billions of dollars. We taxed them where they dumped the steel. We taxed them where they targeted our farmers. I gave our farmers, this doesn’t pertain too much to you, but a little bit. I gave our farmers $28 billion from China because they were targeted and it kept our farmers solvent and actually strong. In other words, he wants to raise taxes on American factories and give preferential treatment to Chinese factories. There’s nobody that wants to see us raise taxes on companies more than China and other countries, because they’re going to pick up the business.
So remember this. If Biden wins, China wins. If we win, New Hampshire wins and America wins. It’s very simple. It’s very simple. Besides that, how could he make a deal with China when he’s taking a lot of money out of China, right? For himself and his family. His son walked away with a billion and a half dollars. He gets fees on a billion and a half. So how can a guy like that, seriously? Did you see the letter? Oh, that laptop he’s got. You know the laptop? You know what it’s called? I said it last night in Wisconsin. It’s called the laptop from hell. Right? That laptop. That laptop is not good.
But did you see that he wants $10 million a year from China for introductory reasons? In other words, he’s going to introduce him to people. You know who the people are going to be? His father. Going to introduce him to his father. So this guy was, we won’t say why and how, sadly no longer in the Navy. Right? Empty years, nothing. And then his father becomes Vice President and now he’s making tens of millions of dollars. It’s wrong. It’s wrong. And Joe’s making it too, by the way. Joe’s making it, too. 10%. We got to give 10% to the big guy. Oh, what does that mean? Tell us. What is 10% to the big guy mean? Explain that. That’s why Joe has the lid on. The Biden tax hikes will also reimpose Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty, which I ended. I ended the individual mandate, most unpopular part, which really makes it not even Obamacare anymore. We took the most egregious thing, and Obamacare was the individual mandate. You had to pay a fortune for the privileges of not paying a fortune to have terrible health insurance. All right?
And in the meantime, we’ve brought the rates down. We’ve done it well, we’ve done a great job with it, but much better would be if we come up with brand new healthcare. We’ll see what happens in the Supreme Court. Always protecting people with pre-existing conditions. Always. 80% of this tax would fall on Americans making less than 50,000 a year. He keeps talking about the 400. It doesn’t work that way. And he knows that. Well, he doesn’t know it, but the people surrounding him. There’s virtually no aspect of American life that Joe Biden does not want to tax and regulate into oblivion. And worse will be the regulations because the taxes will go through the roof. But I think that the biggest reason we were successful is that I took off more regulations than any president, whether it’s four years, eight years, or in one case, more.
He’s always wanted to do this, massively cut your social security and your Medicare. And it’s all part of the war on the middle-class. I don’t know. I don’t know what he’s thinking. I’ve never seen a politician that wants to hurt social security that survives, and then he denied it. But you’ll see in a second, because you don’t have to take my word for it. Just listen to Biden explain his crazy views and crazy plans just a little while ago. So roll out the video. I do this because I love this state. I spent a fortune for that. So I hope it works. I hope it works.
Why we pay for it is by rolling back unproductive tax cuts. That’s why I’m going to eliminate the Trump tax cuts. Guess what? If you’re like me, you’re not going to have, you taxes are going to be raised, not cut. I would repeal the $2 trillion tax cut. First thing I would do as president was eliminate the President’s tax cuts. Reverse the Trump tax cuts.
Vice President has laid out a plan to increase taxes.
When would you make these changes, is my point, because the economy is in a bad state right now. You wouldn’t. I mean, would you wait for unemployment to go under 2%?
No, no, no. I’d make the changes on the corporate taxes on day one.
Bingo.
Well, may I ask you a question, Joe?
Yeah.
You’re right here with me.
Yeah.
Have you been on the floor of the Senate? You were in the Senate for a few years.
Yeah.
Time and time again, talking about the necessity with pride about cutting social security, cutting Medicare, cutting veteran’s programs.
No.
You never said that?
No.
When I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant social security as well. I’m meant Medicare and Medicaid. I meant veteran’s money, I met every single solitary thing in the government.
Look, here’s the deal.
You’re an honest guy. Why don’t you just tell the truth here? We all make mistakes.
No, I am telling the truth. And I not only tried it once, I tried it twice, I tried it a third time and I tried it a fourth time.
Joe, let me repeat it again. I want you just be straight with the American people. I am saying that you have been on the floor of the Senate tine and time again, talking about the need to cut social security, Medicare and veteran’s programs. Is that true or is that not true?
No, it’s not true.
That is not true?
That is not true. I meant veteran’s money. I meant every single solitary thing in the government. Everything was on the table. I did not support any of those cuts in social security or in veteran’s benefits.
Whoa, Whoa, Whoa. Everything was on the table. All right, you’re right. You just said it, including in your judgment, cuts to social security and veterans.
In order to get the kinds of changes we need on other things related.
Okay. Joe, then you just-
But we did not cut it.
I know because people like me helped stop that. Although I would say to the American people, go to YouTube, it’s all over the place. Joe said it many, many times. I’m surprised you can defend or change your mind on it, but you can’t deny the reality.
Secondly, we’re in a situation where we have put together and you guys did it for President Obama’s administration before this. We had put together, I think, the most extensive and inclusive voter fraud organization in the history of American politics. Probably for your dad. First African-American state Senator in the State of Delaware. And by the way, I sit on the stand and I get hot, I got a hairy legs that turn blonde in the sun. And the kids used to come up and reach into the bowl and rub my leg down so it was straight and then watch the hair come back up again. They’d look at it. So I learned about roaches. I learned about kids jumping on my lap and I’ve loved kids jumping on my lap.
So he did try and cut your social security. Just like he said for a year, there will be no fracking, and then he got through that and he goes to Pennsylvania and he says, “You can frack.” And then he denied it. And the media never did anything about it. They don’t ask him the question. But the other day, fortunately, in the debate in one of the better parts of the debate, he said he’s getting rid of it. He will not let you frack. It’s not him. His party will never let you frack. Okay? It’s a million jobs in Pennsylvania. And for you, it’s billions of dollars in energy costs.
I will cut your taxes, not raise them. And I will always protect Medicare and social security, just like I’ve been doing. This election is a choice between a Trump recovery, and I call it a Trump super recovery, because that’s what’s happening. You see the name. And a Biden depression. If he gets in, you’re going to have a depression, the likes of which you’ve never seen before with the possible exception of 1929. He’s going to raise your taxes through the sky. He’s going to put all those regulations. It would take 18 years to get a highway approved. We have it down to two. We’re trying to get it down to one and it may not get approved for environmental or for safety reasons, but you’re going to know very quickly.
We have regulation cuts. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it. He wants to put all that garbage back in. All that wasted, wasted stuff. And we have more cuts to come and we need regulation. We’re going to have regulation, but it’s going to be reasonable. It’s not going to be where it’s impossible to build a simple road from point A to point B. So you have a choice, New Hampshire, between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock it down. He said, “No, I’d lock it down.” We’re not locking down. We understand the disease. We’re going to take such, and we’ve been, taking care of our elderly, especially with heart or diabetes problems. And we’re going to take care of it. And we’re going to be careful, and we’re going to be vigilant, but we’re not locking down. He would lock it down in a heartbeat. He would.
The Biden lockdown would permanently destroy the lives and dreams of tens of millions of our citizens. Wipe out what will be, and what’s turning out to be, the greatest economic comeback of all time. You see what’s happening. Desperately hurt our small businesses, inflict lasting harm on our children and massively reduce life expectancy for the American people, life expectancy. So, for the American people, you see what happens. And I came up with a statement. I don’t know, I think it was me. They’ll try and find somebody else said it 25 years ago, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. When you look at what’s happening with these lockdowns, right?
I mean, look at Michigan, how she’s so vicious. She’s vicious to everybody but her husband, he can do whatever he wants. He can go sailing. He could do whatever he wants now. No, but look, and we won that case in the Supreme Court. Michigan has to open. It was unconstitutional. She was running like jail cells over there and Pennsylvania, right? And so many other places. But fortunately you people are in good shape. You’re in good shape. You have no complaints. Lockdowns will also lead to a surge in drug overdoses. That’s what’s happening. Drugs, alcohol, depression, suicides all over the place. Tremendous family disputes like they’ve never had before. It’s a horrible thing that happens. The cure can’t be worse. Under my leadership, we have marshaled the full power of government in our fight to end the opioid epidemic, to help those addicted and to keep our precious children from getting hooked on drugs.
It’s had a tremendous impact. And it’s really because this was one of the first states I really worked hard on and campaigned in. I learned so much about that whole drug problem from New Hampshire. This is really the place. And you have incredible law enforcement police, fire departments, where I met with them. And they know this problem better than the experts. Biden is the shutdown candidate. The Democrats are the shutdown party. They will shut down your job, shut down your schools, your businesses, your police departments, your energy. They’ll shut down your freedom. And they will shut down the greatest economic comeback in the history of our country. That’s what we’re doing. Do you know how hard it was for me to say, “We’ll shut it down”?
We have the greatest economy in history. We’re blowing away China. China was supposed to overtake us 10 years ago. 2019 they were going to overtake us. They were so far behind. We left them in the dust. Now all of a sudden we have to shut it down. But we saved, remember, 2.2 million people were going to die. We saved 2 million people and now we’re opening up and it was a great honor. We had such incredible people. Ventilators, what we did with ventilators. We didn’t have ventilators and now we’re making them for the entire world. We have all we can use in our country. We got along great with a lot of the governors. Some governors, they were all thankful of the phone. “Sir, this is incredible what you’ve done for this state, that state.” If they happen to be not good people, they would then go out and see the reporters. These people right there. And they’d say, “We’re not happy with the job the President is doing.”
We got them gowns and masks and goggles and ventilators and everything else. But now we have the vaccines coming way ahead of schedule. If this were another administration, you wouldn’t have vaccines for three years. If this were another administration, you wouldn’t have Regeneron that nobody heard of four months ago. You wouldn’t have these new super drugs. And you look at the mortality rate down 85%. 85. That’s incredible. And then you look at Europe and what’s going on. They always used to use Europe. Now they’re not using it anymore. Yet as we’ve seen from surging cases in Europe, their never ending shutdowns. It just never stops. Europe shut it down tight, shut it down tight. And now they have a surge. And it’ll work out, but it should have never happened. Should have never happened from China. They closed up most of China, but they didn’t close the world. They let it come to Europe, the US, the rest of the world.
Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party’s nomination. He’s handed control of his party over to the socialists. He’s handed it over to some very, very bad people. They are filled, and I’ve seen it, they are filled with rage and desperate for power. This election day, the people of New Hampshire must stop the anti-American radicals by giving Joe Biden, and it’s really not Joe Biden, it’s the people that control him, the people that surround him, because Joe doesn’t have a clue. Joe doesn’t have a clue. I really believe he doesn’t have a clue. We can be nice and we can say, “Oh, it’s okay,” or, “Let’s vote for him. We feel sorry.” There’s nothing to feel sorry about. This is our democracy. This is our country. We have to do what’s right. And he’s not a nice person. He’s not a nice person. We have to give the Democrats a thundering defeat. And that includes Congress. That includes your Senate. By the way, you have a very good Senate candidate. I hope you’re going to get out there because Corky, where is he? Is he here? Corky. Corky Messner. Where is Corky? Corky Messner is doing great. I hear he’s doing great, right? Is he? He better do great. He’s running for somebody that doesn’t help our nation very much, I will tell you that. So I hope you’re going to be able to get out and vote for Corky and Congressional Candidates, Matt Bowers and Steve Negron. Right? Great. Where are they? Where are they? Where are they? Hello, fellas. Thank you very much. Good luck. Good luck. And also a friend of mine who’s been with me from day one, GOP Chairman, Steve Stepanek. Where is Steve? Where is Steve? Steve, are we doing okay? Because otherwise you’re going to be fired so fast. We’re doing good? Steve is great. He loves this state and he loves our country and he’s the head of the GOP. And he tells us we’re going to win. He said, “Sir, could you come up for a rally?” I said, “When would you like it?” “How about Sunday?” I said, “That’s great.” So I got in. It’s okay. So I got it about one o’clock in the morning, just left. Actually four states. Left Florida, right, where I voted. I went to North Carolina, I went to Ohio. I did a big one in Ohio. The crowds were unbelievable. It’s an unbelievable state.
We got Big Ten football back. I got it back. You know why? Because Biden and his group said, “Donald Trump killed Big Ten football.” I said, “What do I have to do with Big Ten? What’s this all about?” And then I said, “Well, not only didn’t we kill, I didn’t even know they weren’t going to open. I’m more focused on China, if you don’t mind.” And when I heard that, I said, “That’s terrible.” I called the commissioner of football, the commissioner of Big Ten, nice guy, Warren. I said, “Commissioner, we got to get it back.” And he was good. And we worked very hard. I had a great group of people, Tim Pataki and some others, and we got it back. And then we got PAC-12 back, too. I said, “Get it back, get it back. We got to get it back.” So we have Big Ten opened up. Ohio State won and Wisconsin won so they both won. It’s nice that they won. I wouldn’t have wanted to go there if they lost, but they don’t lose too often.
But Steve has been with us from the beginning and he’s been fantastic. He was with us for the great primary win, which was so good. And another man who’s been incredible, he was from day one. He said, ‘Sir, you’re going to win.” I said, “Say it again.” “You’re going to win, sir.”
“Sir, you’re going to win.” I said, “Say it again.” “You’re going to win, sir.” And he’s a real character, and he’s a really good guy and his name, I’m sure nobody ever heard of him, Corey Lewandowski. Where’s Corey? Where is he? Oh, there they are. I’m looking for these people. Hi, Corey. Are you doing okay, Corey? Are we going to win, Corey? You better win, Corey. I’ll never speak to you again. I’ll never speak to you again.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Hey Corey, next time you could take a bigger chunk of the runway, please. We’d get everybody. Okay? Pretty good crowd. Right? But even bigger is what’s outside. What’s outside. No, Corey’s been a friend of mine for a long time. He’s great. He does. He loves his state and he loves our country and he’s a great person. He’s a great person.
In my first three years, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And now we are doing it again. You know, I see the hat, Make America Great Again Again, Make America Great Again Again. I’m going to add another again. This way I can sell you all an extra hat. It all goes to the campaign. Make America Great Again Again. No, we did. We had it. We had the greatest economy. And I’ll tell you something, we were coming together. You’ve heard me say this. I was getting calls from people that normally I wouldn’t be getting calls from. We had the best numbers, the best everything in every way, and things were happening. Success will bring us together and we’re going to soon have that same. We will soon be in that position again. Very soon.
We increased family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years. So think of that. In three and a half years, we did more than they did in eight years, times five. I mean, think of that. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached the lowest levels ever recorded. Women had unbelievable numbers and more women were working than ever at any time before. Think of it. Think of it. Think of that.
And by the way, suburban women, you know that. I got rid of the regulation. You know, they keep saying, he’s not going to do well with suburban women. And you know why they say that? WhY Because I’m going to stop crime. You know, their next spot, the Antifa people, it only happens with the Democrat run areas, right? But like in Portland, but their next stop is suburbia. But I got rid of the regulation that will allow projects to be built right alongside of your home. And I think that I have a feeling suburban women are going to be voting for Trump. And you know, if Biden gets in, they’re putting that regulation, very specific, they’re putting that regulation back, and you’re going to have low-income housing and projects built. You’re going to have crime like you never saw. And you’re going to want to get the hell out of suburbia. So I think we’re going to do very well with suburban women. And I think it’s going to be one of the surprise.
Remember last time, four years ago, we listened. I suffered with this for six months. My wife would say, our First Lady, by the way says hello to everybody. She tested positive also. How about that? She was positive and then she was better within a few days, you know? But she, thank you, but she’s, she’s great. People love, they love Melania. Every time I go, they have signs, we love our First Lady. We love our First Lady. She’s great. Great First Lady. She represents you well, I can tell you. They don’t treat her fairly, but that’s all right. She understands it very well. She’s done a great job, very popular.
But when you look at what we’ve done, and the last time, right, four years ago, he will not do well with women. Right, Corey? Remember that? He will not do well with women. And then they said, wow, he did well with women. They’re crying. They crying. They said, “What happened? What happened?” He did well with women. Was that the greatest evening, really? Remember? Remember? I wasn’t going to win Florida. I wasn’t going to win North Carolina. I wasn’t going to win Pennsylvania. Michigan wasn’t even talked about. Nobody had won Michigan for decades and decades, republican. Wasn’t going to win Wisconsin, same thing.
All of a sudden they start, the evening begins, “Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio by eight points.” Nobody ever thought possible. That hasn’t happened. So I started off with Ohio and they all said, “Eight points. What’s going on?” That’s when we knew there was something happening. Eight points. Donald Trump won. Then we won Florida. We won Georgia. We won South Carolina. Then we won their firewall. They called it North Carolina. They spent a fortune. They spent a fortune in North Carolina. We won North Carolina and then we just ran it up. It was a beautiful, right?
And then you saw these very unbiased anchors with the tears coming down. They were very unbiased. Remember John King with the red board, right? His hand was shaking at the end. He was like, “Well, this is not that bad that he lost Florida, that Hillary lost Florida. She could do.” But then when we started getting into Pennsylvania, North Carolina, they started getting a little bit worried. Right? No, that was an amazing evening. And we’re going to have an even more amazing evening in 10 days.
After the virus hit, we recovered faster than any major nation in the world. We’re in the process now, but there’s no nation in the world that’s recovered like we’ve recovered. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. We’ve spent the last four years reversing the damage Joe Biden and Obama inflicted. Look. Look. We’ve done more in 47 months than sleepy Joe has done in 47 years, and I really mean it, too. I really do. Biden is the living embodiment of the corrupt and treacherous political class that I’ve had to deal with. Nobody told me the swamp was going to be that vicious or that deep. Swamp creatures, I can’t even believe it. I thought it would be a lot easier. They’re tougher, smarter, more vicious, and we’re beating the hell out of them. We’re beating the hell out of them. And they got rich by bleeding America dry. These same wealthy interests are now funding my opponent’s campaign.
By the way, you know all the money he raises? I could raise much more. I could sit for one day in the White House and call up every guy on Wall Street, the heads of every firm. I need $10 million. I need $25 million right now. Give it to the campaign. I’d have money. I would set every record in the book. I don’t want to do that because when you do that, when you do that, number one, we don’t need it. You remember, last time we had, I mean, Hillary spent three or four times more money. It’s not about the money. In fact, recently I was criticized. They said, Hillary Clinton raised more money than Donald Trump. I said, “What the hell?” Because you know, we won, and they’re bragging that she raised more money. My father taught me a long time ago, if you can win and spend less money, that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. Right? That’s a good thing.
But I would have those donors. They would be talking, “Trump raised $900 million.” I could do that so easy, but I don’t want to do that. If I do that, you’ll see there’s something wrong. I’m the President of the United States. I know many of these people. Every time he raises big money like that, they’ve made deals. They’ve made deals. They’re very simple. I serve the people. Joe Biden is proven to be a corrupt politician, whether you like it or not. He’s a corrupt politician. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician it’s because I’m not a politician.
And People of New Hampshire, you had a lot to do with it because that was a very big win we had here in that primary. And you don’t want a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I fight harder than any President has ever fought before.
I ended the NAFTA nightmare, and you know it better than anybody else. You have the scars of it better than almost any other place in the United States, and proudly signed the brand new USMCA, which has just kicked in, whole different ball game. I wouldn’t say Mexico and Canada are thrilled with that deal, but that’s okay. I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. And the wall is going to be finished very shortly, over 400 miles. We’re doing 10 miles a week. 10 miles a week. We’re doing 10 miles a week. Biden and Harris, the wall, you notice they don’t talk about the wall anymore. They used to say, “The wall will never get built.” Every day, front page hammering me, hammering me.
I had a major party, the Democrats along with the fake news media, and now we find out Big Tech, and the RINOs, too. The RINOs. You know, the RINOs in many ways, are worse than all of them. That’s Republican in name only. Does anybody know? No, I had this major group of guys and they used to hammer me. The wall will not happen. It will not happen. Then I won a couple of cases. They kept saying, then the wall started. Now they never mentioned the wall anymore. And by the way, Mexico is paying for the wall and you do know that, okay? A fee.
Biden and Harris have put forward the most radical immigration plan ever conceived by a major party, including nationwide catch and release, which means open borders. It’s a disaster. Catch, you catch a murderer, you catch a rapist, you know they’re murderers, you know their rapists and you release them only into our country. If you don’t mind, I ended it. And it was very tough to end it. It was very tough. And then Joe said the other night, “And they come back to court.” No, no, no. They never come back. I told him only a very low IQ individual comes back. They never come back. He said, “They come back for a trial.” They say, “Come back in four years.” And then nobody comes back. Why would they come back? There’s no reason to come back. They would never come back. Only, I’m serious, like 1%, a tiny fraction comes back. And he so solid on that. Right? You saw that. “They then come back for a trial.” He was making it sound, catch and release was a disaster. I’ve ended it. We’re not letting criminals into our country.
Our country would surrender control of our border, and we would surrender control to the cartels in Mexico who are vicious. The Biden border plan would be the biggest gift in the history. There’s never been anything like it to drug traffickers, to human traffickers. They traffick in women, not so much children, not men almost at all. They traffick in women. And because of the wall, they can’t come in. This is a problem, by the way, that’s all over the world. This is not just us and Southern border. This is a modern day problem at a level that it’s never been before. They traffick in women all over the world. And it’s because of the internet, because of the computer, but it’s because of the internet and children to a much lesser extent, but women. But the drug traffickers would be allowed to freely infiltrate our country and pump their poison into our towns and schools, especially places like New Hampshire, where it was so prevalent before I came onto the scene, and it’s been a lot better, and we’re going to get it much, much better.
Under my administration, over the last three years, Border Patrol and ICE have seized over two million pounds of deadly narcotics. That’s a number that is unthinkable. We even have our Navy, our ships are now in the Gulf and in the Pacific getting it, because when we closed up the border, they went by water. Okay? They don’t miss a trick. They’re very smart, but we’re seizing tremendous amounts in the ocean and in the Gulf. Working with Colombian officials, we’ve also seized or disrupted 227 tons of poisonous narcotics since April. That’s just since April. And then Joe Biden goes out and says the other day that America is nothing more than an idea. No. America is a great country. That’s what it is. It’s not an idea. It’s a great country. And you can’t have a great country unless you have borders, unless you have borders.
We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military, all made in the USA, much of it in New Hampshire. And we have weaponry, missiles, rockets, tanks, planes, tankers, submarines, submarines. We have weapons. We’re the envy of the world, Russia, China, North Korea. We’re the envy of the world and they all know it. Our nuclear plants are all brought back to perfect condition, or new, and just hope to God we never have to use it. But you know what? It’s going to be far less likely to use when we have it. But it’s all been brought back. We have the greatest weapons, the hydrosonic missiles that go seven times faster than a normal, very fast missile. We have the greatest equipment. We’re the envy of the world and hopefully, hope to God, we don’t have to use it.
We passed big veteran area. Where’s big Al? Where’s Al? I used to love that guy. We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. We got it done. Right? We got it done. So now instead of waiting online for weeks and weeks and days and days, we have your VA choice. You go to a doctor. You get yourself taken care of. We pay the bill. And it’s just been a great thing. We just got a 91% approval rating from the vets. The highest we’ve ever had by a lot. How’s Al? Is he around? Where’s Al? Where’s Al? Where is Al? Al, did I do a good job with the vets? Look at him. Al was great. Al was so depressed when I first started running. I saw him. I just liked him. A big vet, he headed up some groups, and he was telling me how badly the vets were treated. So Al, we got 91% approval rating from the vets. Thank you, Al. And I hope you’re feeling good. You’re feeling all right, right? He went through a lot. We.
killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We killed him. Took out 100% of the ISIS caliphate. And we took out the mass murderer of American troops and many others, Soleimani is dead. The both of them, dead. Worst terrorists. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash, I withdrew. That deal was nothing. And by the way, the first call I get if we win, will be from the leaders of Iran. They want to make a deal because their country is going to hell with the sanctions. They’re down 26 or 27% in GDP, which I think is a record also. I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And instead of never ending wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. No more blood on the sand.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. Do me a favor. Vote for your Senator, please. He’s going to be such a great Senator. I don’t know. It’s probably a tough race, but you should vote. He will be fantastic. He’s what we need. And in conclusion, I want to just say this. A vote for Republicans is really a vote for the American dream because we’re about the American dream.
And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already happening. It’s already happening. That’s already happened. We will hire more police. We love our police. Increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. And we’re giving you a great new Supreme Court Justice, by the way. That’ll take place on Monday. The Democrats are thrilled. Monday. Three of them, all great.
We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. That’s what we have. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed and done. Goes into effect on January 1st. Lower drug prices, Favored Nations, lowest prices in the world. I’m instituting Favored Nations. The drug companies do not love me too much. They’re taken more ads than anybody’s ever taken, but that’s okay. People understand. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
For years, you had a President who apologized for America, now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of New Hampshire. I’m standing up. For the last four years you’ve seen me fight for you, and now I’m relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country. Get your friends. Get your family. Get your neighbors. Get your coworkers, even get your bosses. Say, “Boss, you got to come with me,” and get out and vote. You got to get out and vote.
From Nashua to Dixville, from Portsmouth to Plymouth, from Concord to Claremont, and from Meredith to right here in Manchester, I like Manchester. We inherit the legacy of red-blooded New Hampshire Patriots who live by that immortal motto, Live Free or Die. Live Free or Die. That’s probably about as good as it gets, right? That’s good. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who cross our oceans, settle the continent, tame the wilderness, lay down the railroads, raise up the skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you help build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. It’s happening very quickly. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we’re going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of New Hampshire, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, our stock market, 401(k)s. How are your 401(k)s doing? We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, New Hampshire. Thank you. Thank you. Go vote.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Thank you very much. And hello, Circleville Circleville. And it’s great to be back in Ohio to celebrate the return of Big Ten football with a big victory today for the Buckeyes, 52 to 17, not bad, not bad. Do you remember how this all happened? Sleepy Joe said, “President Trump didn’t want to have football.” I said, “What the hell is he talking about?” Sleepy Joe. So I said, “What’s the problem with football?” They said, “Big Ten football is shut down.” I said, “Well, he said I did it?” Yeah, he blamed me. I said, “I had nothing to do with it.” So then I said, “I got an idea. I’m going to get it open, if it’s shut down.” Right? That’s what happened. I think he even took an ad, “President Trump shut down football.”
I didn’t think about it, I must tell you. I’m thinking about China, and I’m thinking about a lot of other things. So I said, “You know what we’ll do? We’ll teach Sleepy Joe and that group that don’t have what it takes, we’ll teach them how to do it.” And I worked hard to bring back Big Ten. And I got together with your commissioner. He did a good job. And we got it back. And today, you won your football game, and we’re very happy about it, because I know that life in Ohio is not complete without the glory of Ohio State football and other football. I’m glad you won the game. I wouldn’t have wanted to come… Can you imagine if you lost the game? And there’s a lot of people in here, but did you see outside? You’re very lucky to be here. Say, “Thank you very much for this wonderful journey, President.” No, you have to see, you have to see, there are tens of thousands of people in the streets out here trying to get in. I think the next time we’ll get a larger field.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
We really do.
Yeah, that’s nice. That’s really nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. And by the way, we got Pac-12 back. You don’t care about Pac-12, but we got Pac-12. We said, “We might as well do out there too.” Right? And we did a double header. 10 days from now, we’re going to win this great state. And we are going to win four more years in the White House. You remember last time about this state, remember they said… For a year, I had to hear it. You cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. I heard it so many times. That was these fake people. Look at all of them over there, all those cameras. Look at all those lights that are on, all those lights that are on. But do you remember that? They would drum it. For a year, I heard, “You cannot win unless you win Ohio.” And then I got a poll and it said we’re doing pretty well in Ohio, by the way. Right?
And then we won. Remember they said, “It’s going to be close. It’s going to be hard to win, going to be very, very hard. And Trump, if he doesn’t win Ohio, he’s out.” And then we not only won Ohio, we won Ohio by more than eight points, eight points. And they said, you know the story when it closes, I mean, they do a fast little count if you’re winning big. They said, “The polls in Ohio have closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio.” It was like immediate. It was like in the same sentence. “The polls have closed. Trump has won.” Normally, it would take like hours and whatever if it’s close. No, we won big. And I hear we’re winning big now. And I’m hearing they gave up on the state already. And they’re going to give up on Florida very soon because we’re winning big in Florida, we’re winning big in North Carolina.
You don’t want Sleepy Joe to be your president. He draws flies. He’s not drawing anybody. And Obama was there. They called in Obama. They said, “Sir, sir,” this was a few days ago, “Sir, I have bad news.” “What?” “President Obama is going to campaign for Sleepy Joe.” And I said, “Is that good news or bad news?” It’s true. And he said, “Well, he’s going to campaign.” So I guess it started yesterday, the day before, right? They had 42 people show up, 42. We have thousands, tens of thousands, and outside is five times what this is. No, there’s something going on. It happened last time four years ago, this time more. This time more. It happened last time.
There was an enthusiasm four years ago, the likes of which the fake news has never seen before. Right? And I’ll have to tell you, and maybe I’ll be wrong, but at least to this point, the enthusiasm is much more, because you know what we’ve all done together? We’ve done a lot. We’ve done it. We’ve done a lot. It’s much more. It’s much more. We got all those tax cuts. We got all the regulation cuts. We got the steel guys back. We put tariffs on all the crap that they were dumping from China, 25%. They were dumping the steel. Then we said, “You can’t do that.” And lots of other things, we’ve done a lot, but it’s far greater today. Look at this field, I mean, as far as the eye can see, it’s far greater today than it was four years ago. And this is the most important election. This is the most important election of your lifetimes.
I see a lot of young people up here. So big deal. Like what? 12 years. No. Big deal, right? It’s really the most… It could be the most important election we’ve ever had. I really believe that too. And I didn’t think I’d be saying it because our last win was such a big win, we’ve done so much. Nobody’s done more than what we’ve done. They don’t even question it when I say it, because they like to always, “Oh, he did this, he said that, he said…” They don’t even question. We have done more in the first three and a half years than any administration has done. It’s true. When you look at everything.
And it’s an honor, but this is the most important election. I didn’t think I would say it because I viewed the last, what we did four years ago… Can you believe four years ago? Almost. Can you imagine that? Time flies. I’ll never forget the first night in the White House, they said… It’s like a surreal experience to have Abraham Lincoln’s bedroom here. I was talking to the First Lady. I said, “Do you believe this?” Took a little while, it takes a while to get used to it. And then, you know what you have to do? You have to get down to work. You get down to work. And that’s what we did. At the debate this week… Did anybody see the debate? Maybe? Couple of them maybe. But that had a lot. That was like a Super Bowl deal, I guess, with the ratings. That’s okay. We had one poll 91 to nine, it was, 91. With us having the 91. Okay?
Yeah. I kept saying, “Hey, Joe, Joe, you want to do all this stuff? Why didn’t you do it? You were there three and a half years ago. Do it. Why didn’t you do it, Joe? You didn’t do much, Joe.” Then I said, “I wouldn’t have run, Joe. I wouldn’t have run if you did a good job. If you two did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. I didn’t need this, Joe. I had a very good life, Joe. I didn’t need this, Joe. I had a good life. I had a very nice life, Joe, but I wouldn’t have run. You did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. And if I did, I wouldn’t have won because you would have done a good job. There would have been no reason. The fact is you didn’t do a good job, Joe. You let us down, Joe.”
And he had no idea what I was talking about. He had no clue. But at the debate this week, the American people saw the contrast between a 47-year career politician who used his public office to enrich himself. You know that. I mean, his son was like a human vacuum cleaner. He just follows. “Let’s go to China this week, Dad.” “Okay, son. Here, take out a billion and a half.” You get all the fees in a billion and a half. “How about going to Ukraine? Now, they’ll me 183,000 a month for my great, great services on energy.” ” What do you know about energy, son? I didn’t know…” “I don’t know anything, Dad, but I’ll learn. I’m willing to learn.”
For the last half century, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in these endless, ridiculous foreign wars. Countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. I fight for the middle-class. I fight for everyone. I fight for this country. And Biden doesn’t know who he’s fighting for.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Now you have to say, this is serious stuff. It is. It is serious stuff, but is there any place better to be than a Trump rally?
No.
I mean, seriously, right? I mean, it’s serious, but we have fun. And you know the best way to succeed? You got to love what you’re doing. And we all love it. And we love our country. We love our country. In 2016, Ohio voted to fire this depraved political establishment. And you elected an outsider as your president, who is finally putting America first. That’s what I’m doing. You work hard, you raise your families, you follow our laws, you support your church, that you’re not even allowed to go to. How about that? You can’t go to your church, but you can have a riot down Fifth Avenue. Isn’t that nice? You serve your community, and you give your love and loyalty to our great country. Now, you finally have a president that is loyal to you. Totally loyal to you. Believe me. There are easier ways to spend my life. This was… Nobody told me the swamp was going to be that deep and that vicious.
They even impeached me over a perfect phone call. “Hello? How are you doing? Congratulations. Congratulations on your win, Mr. President of Ukraine.” “We’re going to impeach him.” These people are crazy. These people… Oh, now they’re doing it again. The laptop from hell. They found the laptop from hell. This is a laptop that they don’t want to see. How the hell this laptop got freed up, it’s amazing the way God works. The laptop from hell. Right? And now it comes. It’s Adam Shifty Schiff. Yesterday, I saw it for the first time, watermelon. He’s shaped like a watermelon. Adam Schiff, dishonest guy, totally dishonest guy. Made up my conversation. Remember in the halls of Congress, said, “Quid pro quo” eight times. I didn’t say it at all. Isn’t it lucky I had a transcriber? Isn’t it lucky? Otherwise, it would be my word against Shifty Schiff.
But think of it, think of it. So Adam Schiff, he’s out there and he’s talking about what’s taken place, and here it is the laptop from hell. He said, “It’s Russia, Russia.” Here we go again. Russia, Russia, Russia. I think Russia must look at us, they say, “These people are stone cold crazy.” This is Russian disinformation. I’ll tell you what, we got to get back to business. This is crazy what’s going on. This is crazy. Russia.
I heard it yesterday they got them caught… I think Biden… Didn’t he say at the debate, he said, “Well, this was Russian disinformation.” This is a disaster for them. But let’s see what happens. But see, but we have learned a lot. We’ve learned how corrupt the media is. I already knew they were corrupt. But they don’t want to write anything about it. So listen, so we caught them cold, just like we caught them spying on my campaign. We caught them doing horrible treasonous things. These were treasonous things. Let’s see what happens. Should have gone much faster, I have to be honest with you, but we caught them spying on our campaign, the whole group. And by the way, Obama and Biden, they knew everything about it. They knew everything about it. We caught them with that too.
Lock them up.
Lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up, lock them up.
It’s much better if I say, “No, no, no, please.” No, it’s terrible. It’s a terrible thing. Now they’re trying to do it again where they get caught. And they’re trying to say it was Russia. They never say China. You know why? A lot of money comes out of China into their pockets. Do you ever notice? China has not been very good. We did a great trade deal, unbelievable. Two weeks ago, the largest order of corn, the largest order of soybeans, the largest. Yeah. Yeah. Except I feel different. Normally, I would have been here talking about the great trade. But you know what? The ink on the trade deal wasn’t dry. And then all of a sudden, the plague came in from China. That’s more important than trade deals. That’s more important. So it’s no good.
With your vote, we will continue to bring back your jobs, lower drug prices at a level that nobody’s ever lowered them before and you… Last year for the first time ever, drug prices went down, but we’re doing what’s called a favored nations clause. The drug companies are not happy with me. This is not supposed to have happened. Favored nations means you’ll pay the lowest price anywhere in the world. You match. Its favored nations, and nobody’s exercised it, because nobody thought of it, probably. But if they did think of it, they couldn’t have done it because the drug companies are so powerful. They are taking… You see all the ads against me? It’s not so much Sleepy Joe. It’s the drug companies because I’ve exercised the favored nations.
So if Germany or another country pays 25 cents for a pill, the exact pill, and we pay $2.50. And you’re talking about stuff like that, these are the kinds of differences. We pay for all research and development, everything. So if Germany’s at 10 or somebody, and we’re at much higher, we now pay 10. It’s very simple. It’s called favored nations. We pay the lowest in the world. Your prices could come down 50, 60, 70, 80%. They’ll come down a lot. And I have never had more ads spent because they have unlimited money. So big pharma they call it, right? It’s the number one power in Washington, and I’ve just learned they’re the number one power. And I knew this was going to happen. I said, “I don’t care. I’m put here to do a job. I’m put here to do a job.” They have the middlemen. The drug pricing’s very complicated. It’s very complicated stuff. They have it set so that it’s almost impossible to disengage it.
And they have middlemen. You know the middlemen? Nobody ever heard… They never say middlewomen. I’ve never heard middlewomen. I want to be nice. I want to say middlewomen, but I’ve never heard the term, having to do with drug prices. But the middleman gets millions, gets more than the drug companies. At least the drug companies make the drugs, right? These people don’t do anything. They’re very rich. I probably know some of them. I would be not surprised if Hunter Biden was also a middleman. He probably got… On top of everything else, takes in millions and millions. And now we find out that Hunter Biden is a middleman, but these are rich people and they get all this money for nothing. So I worked a deal where Canada, which buys their drugs for exactly 50%, I’m going to let our governors, your governor, governor of Florida, other governors buy their drugs directly from Canada. Nobody’s ever done… Same drug, exactly the same, same lab, same company, same everything. And they’re going to buy it for 50% less. And then by that time, the favored nations will kick in, and you’ll get it for even less.
So this has never happened before, but it’s happening. We will support our great police, protect your Second Amendment, defend your borders, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful… Isn’t it a beautiful phrase? You didn’t hear it for a long time until Trump came along, made in the USA, made in the USA. You didn’t hear it for a long time, right? Been a long time. When I was young, they used to say made in America, made in… Every car, made in… Now you don’t see it anymore. We’re going to see it. Remember, I was saying today, I was in North Carolina, speaking to a great crowd, and I said, “Remember, when I first started, I said, ‘We’re going to say Merry Christmas again.'” You remember? And remember, all the department stores, many of them are wiped out because of the internet, but these are minor details, right? But all the department stores, they’d say, “Happy new year” and everything but Christmas, they don’t want to say Christmas. I said, “We’re going to say Christmas again.” And you know what? They’re all saying Christmas again. They’re saying, “Merry Christmas.”
They’re all saying, “Merry Christmas” again. Going to be there pretty soon. And we have a big day, better get out November 3rd, big, big, big. Who’s voted already? Who’s voted? I just voted. I just voted. Get out and vote. No, this is the biggest election that, I really believe, maybe we’ve ever had, because the radical left has gone crazy. And you know what, when we win this one, I think they’re going to rest. I really do. I think they’re going to say, “Okay, that’s enough. That’s enough.” She goes, “No, they won’t.” You’re probably right. But you know what brings it together? Success. And we’re doing a super V, we’re going up. You see housing starts, and the numbers, the automobile starts, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. The numbers for some things are better than they were pre this plague that came in, the pandemic. I mean, it’s amazing, actually amazing. We have a super V. You’re going to see a number that’s going to be announced just prior to the election, GDP. It was just estimated by the Fed to be 35%. I think the highest we’ve ever had was like seven. Now, who knows if they’re right, maybe they’re… I’ll take 25 right now. Okay? Problem is, I mentioned 35. So if it’s 25, you know what they’ll do? “It was a terrible, terrible upset for the president.” Whatever the… If it was 15, I’d be happy.
They just estimated. They think it might be 35%. That’s unheard of. We’re coming back because we built… You know why though? Because we built a strong foundation. We had a strong foundation. If we didn’t, this country would be some mess. And if a guy like Biden gets in, where he wants to raise your taxes, quadrupled. And-
Where he wants to raise your taxes, quadrupled. And he wants to put all those ridiculous regulations that… Used to take 20 years to get approval for a highway. Now we got it down to two years, and I’m trying to get it down to one. I think we can, and it might not get built for safety reasons or environmental reasons, but we have it down to a very, very short period of time. It used to take… We have roads 21, 22 years, and then it would get disapproved. They would then raise their hands, not to approve it after 20 years.
Now those days are over, but he would put everything back. He’s going to raise your taxes like crazy. I’ve never seen anyone. You know, all my life I’ve been involved indirectly. Usually on the other side, only exclusively. I’ve never seen raising taxes. I’ve seen politicians. “We will lower your tax.” This is the first politician that’s ever running saying, he’s going to quadruple your taxes. What the hell? This the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. I’m looking up. I’m saying, “Is this really like… Is this serious?” First of all, I look at him and I say, “Am I running against this man? I’m running against sleepy Joe.” In primetime, he wasn’t good. Now I’m running against him. This is not prime time.
Did you think he did well in the debate the other night? The last question was the best though, right? Because he lied about fracking. He kept going. During the primaries, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” By the way, you’re a big fracking state. You better hope that he didn’t… You’ve only got about a million. You’ve only got about a million jobs. More importantly than the jobs is you got the lowest energy prices we’ve had. How about your $2 gasoline and less? Right?
You wouldn’t mind if it went to nine, $10, $12. You couldn’t get it. Well, they wouldn’t mind because they’d like you to get rid of all your cars. No more airplanes, no more cars, no more cows. You know, cows. I think they took that off the manifesto, right? It was too much, but they would like it. They would like it.
No, what we’re doing has been incredible. You can’t have your tax increased. So I’m cutting taxes. We’re doing another big tax cut. That’s what brought everything in. Billions and billions of dollars has come into our country because of what we’ve done. What? You’re going to just chase it all out? These are people without a lot of heart. They go where they make the deal. We brought it down. We brought the middle income taxes down. Child tax credit, $1,000 a child. He said he wants to get rid of it. Okay? He wants to get rid of it. Why does he want to get rid of it?
[An idiot 00:02:34].
That could only take place in the great state of Ohio. And I worked here for a couple of summers in Cincinnati. I like Cincinnati. I like Ohio. Worked out well. It was a good success. And you know, it’s like, when something works out well, you like it. I was very young. A job in Cincinnati, Swifton Village, had anybody ever hear Swifton? Anyway. And we bought it and we sold it and it worked out nice. And you know, you always have like a good feeling, but I have an even better feeling because of what happened four years ago with Ohio. Even better feeling. And it’s going to happen again. But it’s the first time I’ve ever seen a politician say, “We will raise your taxes.” I’m saying, “Wait a minute. Did he say… ” No seriously. Have you ever heard a politician campaigning going, “I’m going to raise your taxes. And I’m going to put a lot more regulations. But a lot of people don’t know.”
You know, I think the regulation cuts we did was actually more important. Maybe not for everybody, but for the business people. And then they hire and jobs all over the place. We had 160 million people working. We’ve never been anywhere close to that number. We’re going to be back very soon, 11.4 million people hired over the year, which was a record. But I think the regulation cuts might’ve been even more important. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery and a Biden, in my opinion, this is going to happen. I hate to say it. Depression. You’re going to have a depression. And you have 401(k)s. Does anybody have a 401(k)? Throw them away. They’re not going to be worth.
It’s a choice between a boom and a lockdown. Did you hear him during the debate? Right? He said, “I’d lock it down, oh yes. I’d… ” No, no. We’re not locking it down. No, no. We’re not. We’ve learned the disease. We did the right thing. We saved millions of lives. We saved two million lives, maybe more than that. We locked it then we opened. But we understand it.
Like young people, Barron. He had it. The doctor said… you know, Barron very, very tall young man and a great guy. Right. But he’s young. And the doctor said, “Sir, Barron has tested positive.” I said, “That’s terrible. Barron didn’t even know he was.” He said… Next day the doctor comes in, “Sir, Barron’s fine.” Because they’re young like these guys over here. They’re young because they have strong immune systems. Right? They’re strong. They have these strong, beautiful immune systems. So it was good. I happened to test. Right? You know why? I couldn’t stay in a basement. I’d meet a lot of people. I’m President. I have to get out. I have to get out.
No, it’s true. I’d have meetings where I’d go back and say, “You know, that’s got to be dangerous. That’s got to be this or that.” But the fact is I had it. It worked out well. Now I’m immune. I could run up and kiss this whole group of people, men and women.
It worked out. By the way, 99.9% is good and then you’re immune and all that stuff. I heard you were immune for life. So when I had it, I said, “I’m immune.” To them, to the fake news. And they said, “But only for four months.” I heard it was for life. With me it was for four months. If it was anybody else they’d say for life. But anyway, no, I had it. First Lady had it. Right. And you get better. We got better. They love the First Lady. Very elegant. Most elegant First Lady. No, it’s amazing. It’s amazing. They don’t treat her very nicely and she’s incredible. The most elegant woman. And she goes, “But that is okay.” She loves the people. I mean, it’s really amazing.
We love her, we love her, we love her, we love her.
Yeah. She’s done a great job and she loves it and she loves the people, but she had it recovered. I had it recovered. Barron had it ,didn’t even know he had it. So it’s one of those things, but we have to lead your life. So when I would be having meetings with Gold Star families, military, lots of other people. I’d have meetings. Right. And I go and I do the meeting and sometimes people would come up and they get close and everything else, mask, no mask. They get close. And at least some of these meetings say, “That could be dangerous. I guess. I don’t know.” But I have to do my job. As I said at the debate, I can’t put myself in the basement of the White House for a year and a half. I can’t do it till this thing goes away. And it is going away. It’s rounding the term. Do you notice they talk about cases, always cases, cases, cases. They don’t talk about the mortality rate down 85%. Because what we have is so incredible, the job we’ve done is so incredible. 85%.
Think of that. 85%, but they do it. And you know what? On November 4th, you’re not going to hear the news. The CNN, all they talk about. COVID COVID COVID COVID. If a plane goes down with 500 people, they don’t talk about it. All that talk because they’re trying to scare everybody. You have to lead your life and you have to get out. You have to be vigilant. Be careful, socially distance, get too close. Put the mask on, put it on, get on lots of different things. But really I see what they’re doing.
It’s just like they try to hide all of this corruption from the Biden family, by not putting it. They refuse to write it. And I have to give the New York Post, my hometown paper, the New York Post, the oldest newspaper in the country, the fourth largest. I have to give them credit because they went against the grain, and they’re willing to expose all of this corruption. And then you see Big Tech. They won’t put it on. And if you put it on, they delete you. They terminate you. Charlie Kirk, break up Big Tech. Well, they did sue [inaudible 00:08:50], nothing to do with this, of course. But they did sue Google on Thursday. Right? You like it?
No, terrible. No, no, but they’ve exposed themselves because nobody knew it was that serious. They won’t put it on. And if you put it on, if you put something on from the New York… I think they… Didn’t they delete the New York Post? They terminated out the New York Post. Can you imagine a newspaper? They won’t put it on. People have learned, they don’t want anything because if Biden got in, they would own the world. If Biden got in, China would own our country. I mean, China.
Did you see where the kid was trying to get $10 million a year for introduction purposes? Okay. This was all down in the paper. They say, “Russia did it.” This was all down in a paper. Now confirmed by the guy that ran the company. He’s not… I would say they’re not too happy with him. Wouldn’t you say? I saw him the other day, but it’s all right stuff. I mean, what he’s saying is right. He couldn’t take it anymore. He couldn’t stand the corruption. So let’s see. But can you imagine when people say, “Don’t print it.” In other words, you’ll never hear it, but you know, it ended up backfiring. Because that happened, it’s become a much bigger story. Because you add it all up, it’s actually become… If they would have printed it, who knows what would have happened? You forget it? Something… But it’s become a much bigger… Big Tech, section 230, right? Big Tech is corrupt.
Break them up. Break them up.
The media, the fake news is corrupt. And I’ve been saying it for a long time. Even I didn’t know that you were that corrupt, but look at all of them. Even I didn’t know that you were that corrupt. In the meantime, you watch the television sets go off. Let’s cut. Cut this guy off. Cut the President off. Can you imagine they’re broadcasting this stuff and now they’re saying, “Cut him off,” but it’s okay. I don’t mind because I like telling the truth. Biden and the Democrats will offshore your jobs. Dismantle your police departments, dissolve your borders, confiscate your guns. Second Amendment. They’re after it.
Boo.
Eliminate your private health care. You know, we have 180 million people with private health care. A lot of you have private health care. It’s what you dream of. It’s great. You negotiate. You have many great companies doing it. They compete. You have great private health care. They want to terminate it. They want to terminate your religious liberty. They want to destroy the suburbs. I am the best thing that ever happened to the suburbs. You know, they were talking about this… 60 Minutes. She asked me a question. You saw that I printed out the whole interview. I said, “Put it down.” But she said to me a question, one of her questions, she said, “Why are you begging? Why? Suburban women? You said, “Please love me suburban women, please, please, love me, please. I beg you. Please love me suburban.”” No, I didn’t say that. What I did is I said, “Love me suburban women,” because I saved the suburbs.
They had a regulation. They had a regulation that would have brought low-income housing projects and crime right to their doorstep. Would have been right next to it. And I said, “Suburban women, you’re going to love me.” That’s what I said. And I was being sarcastic. They said, “Why are you begging for the love of suburban… ” Suburban women are going to love me. You know why? Because they want security. They want safety and they don’t want a regulation that’s going to destroy suburbia. That’s all. That’s all. Because they said, “He’s not doing well with suburban women.” I said, “What about suburban men? How am I doing?” “Well there, you’re doing okay. You’re doing well with the men. Not the women.” But Biden has vowed to abolish fracking, right? He says, “We’re going to not frack anymore.” He has no idea what it means.
We are not no fossil fuels, no nothing. We’re going to close down all our factories. We’re going to go with wind. Wind. Wind is going to be the answer. Kills all our birds, everything else. We’re going to have massive blackouts like they have in California, the whole country. You ever see the brownouts? Crippling power outages. 700,000 Ohio jobs would be destroyed. Biden lies about a lot of things. He lied about that. He lied about social security. You saw that, social security. He also won’t tell you the truth about decades long quest. He had a decades long quest to renegotiate social security and Medicare. And he said he didn’t do it. We have a tape here someplace. Do we have the tape? I hope it works better than the big 10 tape. Okay. Play both videos. So we have one real quick. We have… I only do this you.
Biden, to respond.
I never said I oppose fracking.
You said it in the tape.
I did… Show the tape. Put it on your website.
I’ll put it on.
Would there be anyplace for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?
Turn it up.
No, we would work it out. We would make sure it’s eliminated.
What about safe stopping fracking and stopping pipeline infrastructure and…
No new fracking. You got to transition away from it. Look, if you’re going to ban fracking all across America right now, right?
I would love to.
Yeah. I’d love to too. I’d love to make sure we don’t [inaudible 00:34:17] use any oil or gas. Period.
So look in my eyes. I will guarantee you, I guarantee you we’re going to end fossil fuel. [inaudible 00:34:27]
Okay. So there he said, “No, fracking.” Social security.
Yeah. You’re right here with me.
Yeah.
Have you been on the floor of the Senate? You were in the Senate for a few years.
Yeah.
Time and time again, talking about the necessity with pride about cutting social security, cutting Medicare, cutting veteran’s programs.
No.
You’d never said that?
No.
When I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant social security as well. I meant Medicare and Medicaid. I meant veteran’s benefit. I meant every single solitary thing in the government.
Look here’s the deal.
You’re an honest guy, why don’t you just tell the truth here? We all make mistakes.
I am telling the truth.
And I not only tried it once, I tried it twice, I tried it a third time, and I tried it a fourth time.
Joe, let me repeat it again. I want you just to be straight with the American people. I am saying that you have been on the floor of the Senate time and time again, talking about the need to cut social security, Medicare and veteran’s programs. Is that true? Or is that not true?
No, it’s not true. What-
That is not true?
That is not true.
I meant veterans, I meant every single solitary thing in the government.
Everything was on the table. I did not support any of those cuts in social security or in veteran’s benefits.
Whoa, Whoa. Everything was on the table. All right, you’re right. You just said it, including in your judgment, cuts to social security and veteran’s.
In order to get the kinds of changes we need on other things related…
Joe, but you didn’t-
But we did not cut it. I did not go for it.
I know because people like me helped stop that. All that I would say to the American people, go to YouTube. It’s all over the place. Joe said it many, many times, and I’m surprised… You can defend or change your mind on it, but you can’t deny the reality.
We’re starting to use this very expensive means of communication because it’s so much easier than my explaining it. So number one, he said, “There’ll be no fracking, no fracking, no fracking.” He luckily gets a nomination because Elizabeth Warren stayed in for an extra three days, right? If she would have left before Super Tuesday, he wouldn’t have won one state. He would have been out. And then I would have been competing against crazy Bernie instead, which is okay. I don’t care. Well, there would’ve been more energy. I mean, there would have been a lot more… No Bernie has more energy, smaller little face maybe, but have a lot of energy. They’re coming to us because a lot of them, they agree with me so much on trade. We got a lot of them last time. But anyway, so no fracking.
Then he goes to Pennsylvania, great place. And he says, “Yeah, you’re going to have fracking. A million jobs.” They want to keep their bills down. Right? The lighting bills and the gasoline. So all of a sudden he goes from no fracking to, “We will frack.” And everyone said, “How the hell?” And the fake news doesn’t call him out on it. They don’t even talk to him about it. So I bring it up because that’s good. It’s expensive to do, but you know what? It’s worth it for the great state of Ohio. Right. Then we hear about Medicare and social security. So all my life I’ve heard, if you even touch social security, you’re out of politics. This guy tried to destroy social security and Medicare and Bernie caught him. I’d like to thank Bernie very much. You know, Bernie is honestly, he’s a good sport. He’s one of the greatest losers in the history of politics, seriously.
He lost viciously with Hillary and possibly shouldn’t. I mean, I think she sort of beat him, but he was treated very badly. And then this time he should’ve won, except that she said… I mean, what they did, they quadruple teamed him. And what they did to him was incredible. And he’s got no hard feelings. You know, he just goes back. Bernie is the loser. I mean, I’ve never seen a guy like this. He loves to lose. Some people love to lose. Some people. As long as I’m your President, I will always protect Medicare and social security like I promised.
And he won’t and he won’t, and America will continue to be the number one producer of oil and natural gas, anywhere in the world. You don’t have to worry about me with your Ohio fracking. You frack till your heart’s content. By the way, and it’s not up to him just so you understand, it’s not up to him. He switched, but this party is not going to let him frack, okay. They’re not going to let him frack. And he’s got no… And he’s probably not going to be in there too long anyway. They’ve got the dream. They’ve got this Kamala who is the most liberal person.
Boo.
And she said, “There will never be fracking.” Now she’s saying, “Well, I think we can live with it. Yeah.” No, no, no. Go with what they say first. In politics, go with what they say. That’s where they come from. And they don’t have a choice. She doesn’t either. There’s not going to be fracking if they win. There’s going to be a lot of bad things happening. Like socialized medicine, like a lot of bad things are going to happen. Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party’s nomination. He has handed control of his party over to the socialists. I hate to say this, the communists, the Marxists and the left wing extremists that you see running up and down the street.
And the left wing extremists that you see running up and down the street doing tremendous damage in Portland and various places that we could stop. And Antifa. You’re right, Antifa. I said, “Joe, tell us about Antifa, Joe.” “Oh, that’s just an idea.” Really? When you get hit over the head with a baseball bat, that’s not an idea. No, he doesn’t want to talk about Antifa. I said, “Joe I’ve been endorsed by almost every law enforcement group in the country, almost everyone, sheriffs, police. New York City’s finest, they’ve taken all of that great vim and that enthusiasm. What they’ve done in New York is terrible. All run by Democrats, all run by radical left Democrats or even Democrats. You look at what’s happened to New York crime-wise, you look at what happened to Chicago. Look at Portland, look at Portland. Look at Oakland, look at Baltimore.
By the way, Obama talks like his administration. He had stuff. How about Baltimore? How about Oakland? How about Ferguson? How about St. Louis? What he had. And it’s like I said, that’s why I’m here. I’m here because people were not happy. They’re running a slate of the most radical candidates in American history. They are running the most radical people, AOC plus three, AOC. How about AOC?
How about in Minnesota, beautiful Minnesota? Omar, Ilhan Omar. And she’s always complaining about the way we run our country. I think we’re going to win. Minnesota hasn’t been won by a Republican since 1972. Does anybody know that? I think we’re going to win Minnesota. First of all, we did a very good job with Minneapolis. That National Guard went in. We have to get a call. We’re not allowed to send them in unless we want to do something much tougher than that, which you don’t want to do. But we have to get a call. So we get a call, but the National Guard went in. In a half an hour, the whole was … To me, it was a beautiful sight. Boom, boom.
To me, it was a beautiful sight. They lined up and they just started walking and that was the end of that. They should have been called a week and a half earlier. They could have saved a lot of people and a lot of buildings and a lot of area. If Biden wins, the flag burning rioters on the streets will be running your federal government.
I signed into law, when the statues were coming down, our monuments, and at first they were monuments of people we never heard of, and I said, “You know what? You let them get away, they’ll be wanting to take down monuments of George Washington.” Everyone laughed. They thought it was funny. I said, “I’m not kidding.” And they did. If I weren’t president, you would have monuments taken down all over the city of Lincoln, of Washington, of Jefferson. They were going for the Jefferson Memorial. Can you believe this?
And we have a mayor in D.C. who formed a commission with recommendations. Her recommendation is take down the Washington Monument, close up the Lincoln Monument. No, no, these are serious. You read about it. I said, “No, thank you. No, thank you. No, thank you, Madam Mayor. We’re going to keep the Washington Monument just the way it is.”
These people. These people are crazy. I went to Mount Rushmore, made a speech. I don’t know if you saw my speech, but people liked my Mount Rushmore. But you know why they liked it? Because it was so beautiful. And behind me this mountain is carved so beautifully. It’s beautiful. South Dakota, beautiful. And I’m making a speech, and then I realized they want to take down Mount Rushmore. No, it’s not happening.
By the way, don’t tell that to the people of South Dakota. So when I saw the thing with the statues and with the monuments all over the country, I said, “We need a strong, strong law. Not with this Congress we have now, where one day would be too much.” And we took out an old law and it says 10 years in prison if you knock down a monument. And I reenacted it, I signed it. And they were coming in Washington. They wanted to knock down quite a few of our beautiful monuments, including one of Abraham Lincoln, and you remember Jackson, they had the ropes. But the police went in, did a great job. They did a phenomenal job.
They went in, these police, they went in. They were unbelievable. It’s true. Remember they had the ropes, they were ready. They were starting to pull it. And they’re pretty rough guys, but the police went in and they’re much rougher. It was over so fast. It was over so fast.
Andrew Jackson, who was a great general and a good president, maybe a very good president, take it down. Andrew Jackson, a great battle of New Orleans, a great general and a very good president. Beautiful, right opposite the White House. They wanted to pull it down. They were ready, and the police went in and the police did a great job. They did a great job.
But I said, “We need something.” So we signed something that says 10 years. And you know, they were going to march the following day. They were going to have thousands of people come to rip down statues in Washington. And we informed them, “It’s 10 years in jail, 10 years in prison.” They actually used the term prison because it’s a tougher term, right? It’s in prison. Today they don’t use that term today. They use much nicer terms.
It says 10 years in prison if you knock down a monument, do anything to damage a monument or a statue. So what happened is they heard about it, and they came in. There were only 24 people. It was supposed to be tens of thousands. 24 people, and they looked around and the 24 people said, “Let’s get the hell out of here.” And that was the end. That was the end of it. It’s amazing.
It’s amazing what the pen can do, right? The pen. But you couldn’t go to Congress today and get that because they don’t think this way. Today they don’t think. Today they say, “What? It’s freedom of speech, knocking down a statue, it’s freedom of speech. You can let them do whatever they want to do.” Can’t do that. Can’t do that.
So the federal government’s been doing a great job. Now the state governments have to get tougher, and the state governments have to call in the federal government when they have a problem. It’s very simple. The mayor is right. They could use some help. The first thing they’ll do if they win this office, and I don’t think it’s going to happen based on everything I’m seeing, is they’re going to pack the Supreme Court with far left judges who will eliminate your Second Amendment.
And if you happen to be pro-life, you can forget that. You can forget that. They will change everything. They will change it. We took our time. I have three Supreme Court justices. We have a great one coming, a great one coming. Three great ones. Many presidents have had none. Think of it. And me, their worst nightmare, has three.
Their heads are exploding. No, but just of equal importance in my opinion, by the end of my first term, we’ll have 300, give or take a little bit, 300 federal judges, including court of appeal, 300. A record, it’s a record. No, it’s a record. So think of that. 300 federal judges, I think, close to 60 court of appeals judges, and three Supreme Court justices. I mean, can you believe it?
Even I can’t believe it. Even I. It’s a record. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And if I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I am fighting for you harder than any president has ever fought. So we’re joined today by a couple of our good friends, state auditor Keith Faber. Where is Keith? Keith.
Four more years. Four more years.
Good job, Keith.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. So Keith has done great job and thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. That cheering was for you, Keith, I think. Was that for Keith? State supreme court justices, Judy French and Sharon Kennedy. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much.
AFC, AFC, AFC, AFC, AFC, AFC.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Judge. And a person that right at the beginning, she was with us. She was right there and she’s fantastic, GOP chairwoman, Jane Timken. Great, Jane. How are we doing, Jane? How does it compare to four years ago? She goes more so. Even more enthusiasm. I mean, it’s true.
They’re going to find out on November 3rd. It’s going to say, ” Oh.” Remember four years ago that evening? Was that one of the greatest evenings? They said, “This will be a very, very short evening for Donald Trump.” Then they say, “Donald Trump has won the state of Florida.” “Whoa, what’s that all about?” “Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio.” “What the hell is going on?” “Donald Trump has won.” They had North Carolina. They said that’s their stopgap, that’s the one. “Donald Trump has just won the state of North Carolina.”
Then, Georgia and South Carolina, and we just swept that whole place. And then we came in with Michigan, hadn’t been won in decades and decades. And we came in with Wisconsin, hadn’t been won in a long time. And it was one of the most beautiful evenings, wasn’t it? And then they talk about, “If you lose, will this be a friendly transition?”
And I said, “Let me ask you a question. When I won, did they give me a friendly transition?” They spied on my campaign. They did all this stuff. That was not a friendly transition was that, huh? I also want to recognize Pickaway County commissioner and Ohio State football legend, oh, Champ Henson. Where the hell is he? Whoa, good looking guy. You look like you could play tomorrow, Champ. Boy. He’s a hell of an athlete. Jeff. Great. That’s great. Champ led the nation in scoring when he played for the great Woody Hayes at Ohio State. Right? Great.
It looks good. Handsome guy. Woody Hayes was easy to play for, wasn’t he? He was a nice guy. He goes, “No, he wasn’t.” That’s okay. He was great though, wasn’t he, huh? You know what? He got it done, right? He got it done. Great. Nice to see you, Champ. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, right? They would spend money on these foreign nations that didn’t give a damn for us, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation. We are rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the U.S.A. Our troops are all coming back. Got to fight the deep state all the time. No, but our troops are all coming back. Afghanistan, 19 years, would you say that’s enough?
And we’re policemen over there. We’re police. We’re were policemen over there. Under my administration, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And now very simply, we are doing it again. We built it. We had to close it down, unbelievably. I couldn’t believe it when they came to my office. And we had to close it down. We did the right thing. We saved all those lives.
Now we’re reopening it. And we’re doing it at a level that nobody’s ever seen before. In my first three years, we increased family income. You know, it’s called Make America Great Again, right, like the hat. Make America Great Again. But now I say, Make America Great Again Again, Make America Great Again Again.
We increased family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years. So we did it in three years under the past administration. Think of that, five times more. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country. All unemployment.
I mean, I’ve seen so many forms of unemployment, with a high school diploma, without a high school diploma, an MBA, a college degree, graduating number one at MIT, everybody was doing better. Women doing unbelievably, unbelievable, breaking every record. But we had to slow it down, close it up, save those lives. Understand this horrible virus that was sent to us by China, but sent to the whole world, sent to the whole world.
They stopped it from going into other parts of China, but it came to the U.S. and Europe and all over the world, and we can never forget it. We can never forget it. After the virus hit, we’ve recovered faster than any major nation on earth. We’ve recovered faster economically since April. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. This week, I signed an order to protect the pensions of workers of Delphi Corporation. Do we have any of those workers here? You are so lucky I’m president. There’s two people here.
You are so lucky that I’m president. But when General Motors went bankrupt, Biden and Obama threw these workers really to the wolves. Their pensions were totally wiped out. Their families were left in disarray. It was a terrible thing. So my order is the first step to restoring the pensions and healthcare benefits promised to workers in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Ohio, and congratulations. No, they were treated very unfairly. And they were promised all sorts of things, and then as usual, nothing happened.
I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. We’re not going to let them rip it off. And they have been doing that for a long time. Joe Biden says buy American, but he spent 47 years in Washington sending our jobs to foreign countries. And you’ll also notice he never says hire American. Did you ever notice that? That’s because his plan is to hire foreign workers. He wants open borders and he wants unlimited illegal aliens coming, and we don’t know who they are.
So that leaves no jobs for the Americans, so we have that straight dole out. It’s all done. Don’t worry about it. Don’t get upset. In fact, he’s vowed to terminate all of the protections that I’ve given to the American worker. I’ve given you a lot of protections. To save our auto industry, I withdrew from the horrible Transpacific Partnership. It would have been the worst.
I ended the NAFTA nightmare, one of the worst trade deals, probably the worst trade deal. Everyone said it would be impossible to do, and proudly signed the brand new USMCA into law, Mexico, Canada. And by the way, just kicked in. The difference is unbelievable. You know how I know it’s good? Because those two countries aren’t quite as happy as we are.
But NAFTA was a disaster. We lost 60,000 factories went to different countries. It’s terrible. It was terrible. It was a terrible thing to have signed. And everybody said it would be impossible to terminate. I terminated it. And we have the USMCA, which is great, great for us. And it makes it very, very tough. And the wall is almost complete. He says, “Build the wall.” The press doesn’t talk about the wall anymore because it’s all built. Very soon, it’s going to be completed. And it has created such an unbelievable strong border. You have no idea. And Mexico also, Mexico’s given us 27,000, think of that, 27,000 soldiers to protect our border. I said, “You have to do it. You have to do it because it’s not right. And we don’t have people.”
Remember when I came in? Remember the caravans coming in, they were coming in. Thousands and thousands of people were trying to come in. I said, “You can’t do it.” You don’t hear about any of these stories anymore. You don’t hear about the wall anymore. Used to be wall, wall, wall, because they never thought I’d get it built. Once you’re a developer in New York City, this is easy.
No, we got it financed. Mexico will be paying for it because we’re going to charge a fee at the base. So it’s very simple. But they’ve been great. Mexico’s treated us very well. They didn’t use to treat us well, but now they treat us well. Joe Biden has vowed that he wants open borders, mass amnesty, and free healthcare for all illegal immigrants coming in.
And that was another tape he had, right? They had 16, 17 of these super radical left people running on the Democrat side.
Joe’s a puppet.
That wasn’t so bad. I was waiting. I could hear that. That wasn’t that bad. That’s good because you got a lot of people watching you on television. But remember, they said, “Who is going to give healthcare to illegal immigrants coming into the country?” And they all raised their hands, everybody raised their hands except Joe, because he’s been doing it for 47 years. He knew it was not a good thing. So he did the shoulder. Remember?
And then he got the hand up. I said, “Ah, I just won,” because you can’t do it. The problem is, look, we all have a heart, but if you do that, you’re going to have tens and millions of people pouring into our country for healthcare, for college, for school. They want to get free school, free education. They want to give, the new one, they want to give free lawyers to everybody that enters our country illegally.
That’s down in the manifesto with Bernie. That’s between those two characters you saw up there, Bernie and Joe, Sleepy Joe. Bernie got taken further left. Can you believe it? Bernie is supposed to be taken to the right. He took Joe further left than anything he ever did …
… taken to the right. He took Joe further left than anything he ever did. The manifesto we call it. Biden’s also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans. I got travel bans if it’s okay with you, because I did like people that want to come in and blow up our country. Okay. I got it passed. Wasn’t easy. That was not easy. That was a bad one. That was a tough one. They thought I was a bad person. No. I want people to come into our country who love our country, who can help us, not people that want to blow up things and kill people. But travel bans and increase, they want to increase refugees. This is an agreement with Bernie Sanders. Increase refugees, 700%, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. No, thank you. No, thank you. We appreciate it, Joe. Thank you very much, but no thanks. I’m keeping the terrorist jihadist and violent extremists out of our country if that’s okay. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including more than $6 billion in contracts. Oh, for Lima. You know, Lima, the army tank plant. Lima. I did that when I was here. That was going to close, that plant. I was President Elect. So I had nothing to do for a little while. There was a little time, I didn’t know I was being spied on. So I had nothing to do. And I heard about this tank plant and I had some friends, a lot of friends in Ohio. And they said about this tank plant that… Jim Jordan, the great Jim Jordan, who we love. He’s one of them. Jim Jordan was a great NCA wrestling champion, too. He was great. He was great. Jim Jordan is a great warrior I will tell you that. Nobody like him. But it’s true. Jim Jordan and others, they said, we have to save this plant. I said, let me take a look.
So I actually went to Lima and I saw this plant. And it’s the only plant now that makes army tanks. And a level of sophistication, you wouldn’t believe it. And I went through, I’m good at this stuff. I went through the plant. I said, “If we ever close this plant, you’ll never be able to get the skill, the talent or a facility to do this.” I’m not going to buy our tanks from China. Okay. We were close to that in the steel world. Let’s buy our steel from China. No, thank you. You know, there are certain industries we have to have and we brought that back. So I said, “No, I’m not going to let this be closed.” And I stopped it. And we are making tanks at a record level, all made in the USA. We’re making it at a record level.
And you’re right. Jim Jordan was very helpful.
USA, USA, USA.
You would have never been able to replace that plant, this big, incredible sprawling place. And they make these tanks. They’re so sophisticated. You wouldn’t believe it when you see. I look inside. I said, “No, thanks. I don’t have to go inside. I don’t need that.” You know who tried that? Dukakis, that didn’t work out. I’m slightly larger than him. I might’ve had the opposite problem. But he didn’t look cool. That was not a good picture with him with a helmet. Does anybody remember? Dukakis? He was up 10. After that picture, he was down 15. He went down 20. No, I don’t have to go into the tank, but I did happen to look in and I said, “That’s like a complex machine. That’s incredible what you do. We can’t close this place. You’ll never be able to reproduce this.” And we didn’t close it. So it’s one of a lot of great decisions I think we’ve made for our military and for the people and also for the people of Ohio.
And we took over 100% of the ISIS caliphate. You saw that, Syria and Iraq. And for years there were after this blood thirsty killer. They were after, they could never find him, but we found him. We killed the leader, founder of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, we killed him. And then we took out the mass murderer of American troops and many other people, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran, nuclear deal. One of the dumbest deals. And I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.
And instead of never ending wars, you see we just signed yesterday another one, Sudan. So we have Bahrain, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates. Really led by a great leader, Muhammad, a great leader, and we’re getting peace without blood all over the sand. It’s going to happen. We have many other countries that want to come in. Many other countries want to come into that deal. We’ll have peace. I did more in 47 months than sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years. That’s right.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, a limitless future for all Americans. Really it’s a vote for the American dream. That’s what it is. We’re for the American dream. I’m for the American dream. The Republicans will be with us. Then in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. We’ve already started. We will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already happening. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.
We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of the ridiculous, endless foreign wars if that’s okay. Keep them out. We’ve created the greatest military in the world. The equipment that we bought. 2.5 trillion, 2.5. That was much easier to get, frankly, and the Democrats didn’t want to give anything, but that was much easier to get, believe it or not than the wall. They didn’t want the wall. They said the wall is old fashioned. They wanted drones flying around so you could watch people pour into our border. Okay. And you know I’ve been saying it a lot because it’s true. There are two things that will never get obsolete, a wall and a wheel. Right? I said the wall and that wall is that just has stopped them. But what we’ve done is we’ve created two and a half trillion with a T, trillion dollars. We have the greatest jet fighting planes, tankers, missiles, rockets, submarines. We have greatest weapon in the world, submarines greatest, most powerful weapons in the world.
Our nuclear arsenal is fixed and ready and only hope to God we never have to use it, but you know what? We’re much less likely to have to use it because right now we have things. The hydrostatic missiles, I call them the super-duper missiles. They’ll go seven times the speed of a normal quick missile. I mean, these things are amazing. And you know, Russia took things that we had during the Obama Administration, from our great scientists and engineers. And they built, they have hydro sonic, but we have hydro sonic now that they’re fastest in the world. We needed all of this stuff. We have the greatest equipment. We are the envy of the world, whether it’s Russia, China, North Korea, we have the greatest equipment. We have the greatest people. We have the greatest warriors. But our warriors needed the equipment.
And when I came into office in my first short period of time, one of the world’s most overrated generals told me, “Sir, we don’t have ammunition.” I said, “That should never be said to another president again.” And now we have so much ammunition, we don’t know what to do with it. So we have totally rebuilt our military. The finest equipment anywhere in the world, nothing even close, no other country has anything even close. The fake news was saying, “You shouldn’t be saying that, you’re giving confidential information.” That’s okay. I’ll say it. There’s nobody. Can you imagine that? They wanted to even call me on that. Maybe they should impeach me for making that statement.
And we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest thing there is, price transparency. Remember I said it. Kicks in on January 1st. It’s bigger than healthcare. Wait till you see what you can do when you have transparency, where you can negotiate with your doctors, your hospitals, et cetera. Lower drug prices, as I said, favored nations. And even more, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And so importantly, we will live by the timeless words of our national motto In God We Trust. Amen. For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Ohio. Thank you.
Biden used to say that he’s made a lot of mistakes, because he was never sure where the hell he was. Right? So let’s say, like that line, maybe a lesser version of it. I’m standing up for the great people of Florida. No, they had no palm trees. Now he did that about seven times. Once you do that, walk off the stage, no matter how good a speech you give, it’s no good. You just walk off the stage. Standing up for the great people of Idaho. He had Iowa and Idaho and he couldn’t figure it out. This is not what we need. For the last four years. You have seen me fight for you. And now I am relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country. Go through Ohio. Vote early, bring your friends, your families, your neighbors, your coworkers, get your boss to go. I don’t care. But you have to get out and vote. Everybody has to get out and vote.
Four more years, four more years.
From Akron to Columbus, from Dayton to Cleveland, from Cincinnati to right here in Circleville, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, their sweat, their soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. We inherit the legacy of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, dug out the Panama Canal, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Best is yet to come.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. That’s what this has all been about. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Ohio, we have made America powerful again, military. We have made America wealthy again, stock market. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Ohio. Go out and vote. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And hello, Florida. I love Florida. It’s great to be with you and back at The Villages. I like The Villages.
Turn the mic up. It’s great to be with you. It’s something I’ve wanted to do. I was here four years ago in some little ballroom that held about 400 people. And I said, “I want to be with The Village, everybody.” I said, “Get a field or do something. Just go out and get a field. Go out and get a field.” And that’s what they did. You got a lot of people here. And I see you driving around in those beautiful golf carts, the most beautiful carts. I wanted to get one. I’m going to get a golf cart like that. But you have the best and you’re always fighting for me and I’m always fighting for you. And I appreciate it. That’s why we’re here.
And we had an exciting night last night with Sleepy Joe. But I’m always here to protect you, and love, cherish, defend our nation, seniors. And not all of you are seniors. I see a lot of people that are very young here. [inaudible 00:01:40]. And I see a lot of people that are young at heart, right? We’re young at heart, all of us, and the timeless values that make this nation the greatest nation anywhere in the world. Eleven days from now, we’re going to win the state of Florida. We’re going to win four more years in the White House. I think Joe Biden proved last night that he’s not capable of being President of the United States. Come on, Gabe. The country saw firsthand that this election is a choice between a Trump recovery, and I’ll call it because that’s what’s happening, it’s a Trump super recovery and a Biden depression because you will have a depression. Who has 401(k)s in this group? Anybody? If he got in, wave bye-bye to your 401(k) because it’s going down the tubes. It’s a choice between optimism, patriotic vision for American success, or Joe Biden’s dark, dismal, gloomy. Did you hear what he said last night about darkness, darkness, always darkness? But it’s a gloomy vision. We’re about the American dream, all about the American dream, greatest country in the world.
Joe Biden is totally controlled by the radical socialist left. This country will never be a socialist country. Never. One of the most stunning moments last night was when Joe Biden admitted that he wants to abolish the oil industry. That wasn’t too good. Did you see him this morning? This morning, “I didn’t really need that. I didn’t mean that.” It was the last question they talked about that. I said, “Whoa, this is the big point of the evening.” Remember, I said, “Well, you want to get rid of oil and gas?” Is that … “Yeah, well, we want to phase it out.” I said, “Thank you. Texas are you watching? Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Ohio are you watching now?”
Now they’re going around, Kamala. Kamala is going around saying, “No, no, no. We want to keep it.” This woman is a super radical left. She’s against fracking. If they get in, they’ll end your energy independence. We have energy independence right now. They will end it very quickly. Now they’re going around trying to make … That was one of the, well, we’re going to have to see how it works out, but that could be one of the worst mistakes made in presidential debate history. We’re going to see. We hope it is. This is perhaps the most shocking admission ever made during a debate, where he goes in and he says no fracking. But he’s been saying it, no fracking. He got the nomination, all of the sudden, he’s fracking. No fossil fuels and no gas-powered cars. Ultimately, let’s not have cars. Let’s get rid of airplanes.
How about that Senator from Hawaii, where she went along with the Green New Deal? When she said, “Yes, I’m in favor.” I said, “Yeah, but you’re not allowed to use airplanes under the Green New Deal.” And she’s in Hawaii. She said, “Well, I don’t know what to tell you.” And she says, “Maybe we can build a bridge to Hawaii instead.” She’s a beauty, isn’t she? She’s great.
Biden’s plan would mean American seniors have no air conditioning during the summer, no heat during the winter, and no electricity during peak hours. It’s true. He wants wind. He wants to wind. When the wind doesn’t blow, “Let’s watch the president tonight, Darling, on television.” “I’m sorry, we can’t do it. The wind’s not blowing tonight.”
Last night, Biden pledged to institute the most horrible and dangerous immigration policy ever in this country, catch and release. He wants to bring it back. It took me two years to get rid of it. That’s where you catch a criminal, it could be a rapist, could be a murder, a real criminal, and you just released criminal and say, “Please come back in four years.” Did you see what he said last night? He said, “Oh, and then they come back for court.” I said, “No, they don’t come back, Joe, 1%.” He said, “They come back.” No. I said, “Joe, you don’t know anything about it. They don’t come back.” This a very bad policy, Joe. They don’t come back. They need Perry Mason, but they don’t Perry Mason. They just don’t come back. Criminals and rapists and even murders are set free and they’re set free into our country. It’s ended now. It was very hard to get ended. What I had to do to end it, I will not tell you. I will not tell the people of The Villages. I won’t tell the people of The Villages.
And by the way, you love it here, right? I don’t know. It’s an incredible, popular place. I see it so much. It’s incredible, the love, the spirit. So do you love the people that developed it? I think so, right? Right. It’s nice to have somebody but that wasn’t the same love as you had for the … No, no. Somebody did a good job.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Thank you. Thank you. Look at this guy. Look. Beautiful.
We love you. We love you.
Look, it’s Uncle Sam. Come here, Uncle Sam. Look at this guy. Look. This is a hell of a day. Mr. Congressman, how are you? When are you getting married? Are you getting married soon? [inaudible 00:07:33] Don’t lose her, Congressman. You’ll be very depressed.
Biden says America is nothing more than an idea, right? He also said, didn’t he say Antifa is just an idea too? So he’s saying … Only at The Villages could you say it. He said America was an idea. But come to think of it, he said Antifa’s an idea too, right? Well, America is not an idea. It’s a great country. I’ll tell you, it’s a great country. And America is our home. It’s a nation and it’s a nation that has borders. When you have borders, you have a nation. You take away the borders … They want to take away the borders. They want to take down the wall. The wall is now 400-plus miles long. How about that? And it goes very high and very low. It goes down deep for two reasons. To hold it up is one. That’s a good reason, but also for the tunnels.
And Arizona’s very happy. We just got back, Pam, some numbers from Arizona. Very good. Numbers from Florida, I don’t want to talk to you, but look at all the fake news back there. I don’t want to talk about it. I don’t want to talk about it. Look at all those people. There’s the great John Roberts, who’s generally speaking, very good. John, generally. But he has bad moments. Hello, John. You having a good time? He’s a good guy. John is good. John is good. They’re not all fake, just about 85% of them. But isn’t it amazing? Some day, I’d like to make a speech without any press. Without any press. One little mistake and they try and take you out.
And I do this four times a day. It’s crazy. So we’re going on a tour for the next 10 days. Can you believe it? We’re down to 10, 11 days. And we’ll be doing two or three of these and then four these, and then we’re going to end up five or six of these a day. Do you believe it? Is this any kind of a life? Is this a life? Who can do that? Who can do that? Do you think Sleepy Joe can do that? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I don’t think he can do it.
Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.
I knew there was a reason I wanted to be at The Villages. This is a hard thing. This was very hard. They said, “They have no field that’s large enough.” I said, “Do have a polo field someplace? Let’s get a polo field.” Looking at that equipment. Look at those helicopters. How good are they? Everything is good. 2.5 trillion, we should have good helicopters.
But if Biden wins, your borders will be gone and your country will be gone, frankly., Look, this is not a man that’s capable. When I meet with these heads of state, the one thing I can tell you, they’re sharp. They’re sharp. They’re not off. They’re sharp. This is not a man that can handle the job. He leaves his house this morning, he gets up, and I’m going to talk about it. All he talks about is COVID, COVID, COVID because they want to scare people. And we’ve done so well with it. Now it’s 99.8%. I mean, you look at what’s going on and we’re rounding the turn. We’re rounding the corner. We’re rounding the corner beautifully. But Joe Biden was very disrespectful last night to President Barack Hussein Obama. You saw that. Barack Hussein Obama. Remember Rush Limbaugh would always do that. He’d do, “Barack Hussein Obama.”
And Rush is doing okay. Rush is great, isn’t he? Do we love Rush? He’s got such guts and he’s going through a lot, but he’s got courage like you people have. He always has had courage. At last night’s debate, though, he was very disrespectful, really disrespectful. When he said that he, Joe, was vice president, not president, blaming Obama when trying to make excuses for the failed immigration policies, right? You saw that? “I wasn’t the president. It was him.” Because we talked about cages, right? I said, ” Joe, you built the cages.” Remember, they tried to say “cages for children.” And they said, “Trump built cages.” And then they found out it was a little problem. There was a picture in the New York Times, the failing New York Times. If you take a look at what its unfunded liability is, check it out sometime. It’s definitely failing. It’s only a question of when.
But you take a look at the failing New York Times and they had a picture of a cage and they thought that I built it. And it said “cage.” And then somebody called me, they said, “Sir, that was built,” one of the people that helped build it, “that was built in 2014.” I said, “2014, I didn’t happen to be president.” It was built under Obama/Sleepy Joe Biden. And so did you notice when I kept saying, “Why did you build the cages, Joe? Why did you?” And he just kept talking. He didn’t want any part of it. But they started it.
If you want jobs, safety, and borders, you have to vote for the party of Abraham Lincoln, Honest Abe. Vote Republican. And I’m voting early tomorrow in Florida. Do you believe that? I’m coming to vote. I came down here to vote. I actually came down here to see The Villages, and tomorrow morning I’m voting here as opposed to sending it in, you know, just mail it. I liked being able to vote. I’m old fashioned I guess. I like to get online and I have to stand there for two hours, maybe they’ll move you up a little bit. But I liked the vote. So I’m coming, I’m going to be voting here tomorrow. And I urge every one of you to go and vote. And I don’t think I have to urge too many. How many people here have already voted? That’s incredible. Thank you. Look at you. How many people here have voted for President Trump?
How many people here have voted for Sleepy Joe Biden, please? I don’t see any hands. I tend to believe them. Sleepy Joe, no, he’s not the guy. For 47 years, Joe Biden sent American jobs to China and other nations while the Bidens vacuum up. Look, did you see what’s going on with his son? I mean, he goes into a country, the guy leaves with volumes of money, vacuum up millions of dollars all over the globe. Last night, Joe lied straight to the American people. He claimed that he had never taken a penny from any foreign source, ever in my life, ever. I mean, he goes to think of it, his son, without a job knows nothing about energy. These young people in the front, do you know anything about energy? No. She said, no. She knows more than Hunter. Remember, where is Hunter? By the way, where the hell is Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Remember the t-shirt? I said one time, “Where’s Hunter,” the next day they had a t-shirt, “Where’s Hunter?” There he is.
Hunter, you gained weight. But you look even better. You still look better. Anyway. No, but think of it, he gets lined up with this Ukrainian energy company, not the highest reputation. $ 183,000 a month to be on the board, right? Gets a $3 million upfront payment. Then that’s only the first nation that he goes. He has no knowledge of energy whatsoever. Anybody in this audience knows more. They then go to China. Let’s go to China. He gets 1.5 billion to manage, meaning millions of dollars a year in fees. He then goes to Russia, he got three and a half million from the mayor of Moscow’s wife, three and a half million dollars. And Obama was in charge of all of that stuff.
Then they stole the premier, they stold the submarine port, Russia. And Russia takes it. And he’s in charge of Russia, but he got three and a half million dollars. So what’s going on with that? So he was in charge of Ukraine, China, Russia. That was sort of a responsibility of the vice president. And he got money from all of them. And he got it from his son and the son made no money for years. And all of a sudden he’s making all this money. They’re corrupt politicians. Okay. You say what you want.
And then you see the notes, and you see the gentleman that got up yesterday and you see what he had to say. He’s a legitimate person. But you see the notes that you see that Joe gets 10% of everything, right? And Pammy got 50% of something. And then the guy has the deal in China where he wants to get $10 million a year, 10 million a year for introductory purposes. In other words, he’s going to introduce people. You know who he’s going to introduce, his father, that’s who he’s going to introduce. It’s a bad deal. It’s a bad deal. It’s corrupt as hell. I don’t care what you say. It’s corrupt as hell. Okay.
And they like to also, when they say, “Oh, well, what about you and your kids?” I don’t do deals. I don’t do deals. I used to do more deals. I was the king of deals. But I don’t do deals. Like you tell my kids, you can’t, it’s a conflict, just don’t do it. So, it’s possibly allowed. It probably is allowed. But I say, “We don’t need it. Just don’t do them.” My kids, these kids have done such a good job. They have done such a good job. And they don’t do deals.
The Bidens got rich while America got robbed. And how did Biden get so wealthy spending a half a century in public office? He’s been in public office for 47 years, almost 50 years. He used his office for personal profit at your expense, and my expense, and all of our expenses. In 2016, Florida voted to fire this [inaudible 00:18:08] political establishment. And you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first and putting The Villages first, putting The Villages. We’re putting The Villages first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician it’s because I’m not a politician. And if I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, the deep state, the RINOs. The RINOs are almost worse than our enemy. The RINOs, we love those RINOs. Republican in name only. You know what that is, right? Republican in name only. We got a lot of them. But it is slowly disappearing. It’s amazing. They disappear into the woods. But if-
They disappear into the woods. But if I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fought for you harder than any president has ever fought for anybody. And with your vote, we’ll continue to cut taxes. I got you the largest tax cut in the history of our country. Cut regulations, lower drug prices.
Your drugs will be going down 60, 70, 80% because I’m instituting what’s called the favored nations clause. You see all the commercials the drug companies are running against me? It’s unbelievable. It’s unbelievable. This is why I see politicians. This is one of the many reasons why. The other reason is that the biggest lobbyist, the biggest donator by far are the drug companies. Very powerful, a lot of money. They are taking commercials at me. I don’t care. I’m doing the right thing. I instituted a favored nations clause where the United States, right now we pay the highest price of any country in the world by far, it’s not even close. It’s not even close. You can have a pill that sells for 25 cents identical and in the United States could sell for $3. That’s how bad it is. It’s terrible. So I instituted what we call a favored nations clause. So we will now go, we will be paying the lowest price, match the lowest price anywhere in the world.
And I’m getting hit hard on that one, but that’s okay, Pam. Is that okay? I’ll have to withstand, the commercials are unbelievable. They’re unbelievable, but that’s okay. People get it.
We want to support our police, protect our second amendment. They want to take your second amendment away. Defend our borders, maintain energy independence, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the phrase, that gorgeous phrase, made in the USA. We’ll deliver record prosperity, epic growth, and a safe vaccine is quickly coming that will help end, by the way it’s ending anyway, it’s going to end. You’re going to have surges. Look at Europe. They have a surge. Then it goes down. Look at Florida.
You have a great governor by the way. You have a great governor. And you have an even better first lady, but I won’t say that. Now you have a great governor. In fact, the governor is going to go to Canada. I gave him the right. He’s going to Canada, where they pay 50% less for the same drug. And he’s going to buy for the state of Florida, until this favored nations kicks in, where you go down 70, 80, 90%. And last year was the first year in 53 years, that drug prices in this country went down. Not by much, but they went down. They didn’t go up. 1%, not much, not proud, 1%, but with favored nations, you’ll go down 50, 60, 70, maybe even 80% in drug prices. But I gave your governor the right to go to Canada and buy drugs in Canada. The same exact drug from the same factory, same company, 50% and even more discount. And so you’re going to start seeing it fast. And then ultimately the favored nations will kick in.
So I better be president when all this stuff happens. Can you imagine it’s all done? Can you imagine if sleepy Joe said, “I’ve done a very good job on drug pricing.” “What did you do, Joe?” “I don’t know. I don’t know what I did.”
Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much. We’re going to quickly end this pandemic, this horrible plague that came in from China. They should have stopped it and we’re not going to forget what they did. We’re not forgetting at all. I’d signed a great trade deal with China. Recently they had the biggest order of corn in the history of our country. Biggest order of soybeans, biggest order of beef, but you know what? It’s no longer the same to me. Doesn’t mean the same. Would have been great. I would have been so proud of it, but now I don’t view it the same. Normal life. That’s all we want. Normal life will fully resume. We had the greatest economy in our history. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country, we’re doing it. We’ve got this. We have a super V going up.
If you look at housing, if you look at cars, if you look at car production, nobody can believe the numbers and you’re going to have a number released very soon. And the number is going to be… Think of it. Think of this. You’re going to have a GDP. Now the Fed, Atlanta, I believe the Atlanta Fed projected GDP of 35% in the third quarter.
I don’t know if it’s going to be 35. In any event that would be higher than any GDP ever in history. And many times higher than our highest, which I think was like seven or 8%. 35%, we’ll see. We’ll see. Whether it was 20%, it was 12%, I’d say it was great. But they just came out, they said 35. Who knows if they’re right. We’re going to see. Here’s the goodness news, it’s going to be announced right before November 3rd, right before. And I’m willing to take my chances, being a gambling man, I’m willing to take my chances. I think it’s going to be a magnificent, whether it’s 25, 35, 20, no matter what it is, it’s going to be a great number because we’re doing numbers like nobody would believe.
We thought we’d have an unemployment of 40, 42%. You know what it was? It dropped down to 7.8%. And yesterday, Larry Kudlow called, the great Larry Kudlow. And he said, by a certain it’s 5.8%. Think of that. And we’re in the midst of rounding out, but in the midst of a pandemic. It’s actually amazing what everybody has done. And I’ve been given a lot of help with some of the people over here. I gave you the largest tax cut and reforms in American history, and we will cut taxes further. And we’re cutting taxes for the middle class. We’re cutting taxes for people that need jobs and nobody’s ever done it at a level like we’ve done it. By contrast sleepy Joe Biden will give you the single biggest tax hike in the history of our country. He’s talking about quadrupling taxes, 4 trillion in taxes so he can waste it on the green new deal. The green new deal, no cars, no airplanes, no cows.
No cows, you know. Whatever happened? Did they ever leave the cows in? I think they had to take that out, right [inaudible 00:06:53]. Originally, it was no cows. They didn’t want to have any cattle or cows, which is pretty brutal when you think of it, right? He’ll bury you in regulations, dismantle your police departments, dissolve our borders, confiscate your guns, terminate religious liberty, destroy your suburbs. I’m always saying, I’ll tell you this, the fraudulent media. So I always get up and I have fun. Please, please, suburban women. You should love me. I ended the regulation that’s going to destroy the suburbs.
Please, please, suburban women. You should love me. Because somebody said, I’m not doing that well with suburban women. I said, “Why?” Last time I was supposed to be doing terribly with women, then I got 52%. They said, what the hell happened with Trump and women all of a sudden? Remember they said Trump did well with women. So how’d it go? Hey, so I get it, I get it. I say, “Please, please, suburban women, please, please love me, suburban women. I want you to love me because I got rid of the regulation that’s going to destroy your neighborhood. You don’t want to have projects next year house. You don’t want to have crime in the suburbs, et cetera, right?
So I go on 60 minutes and she says, Lesley Stahl, that’s another beauty. She goes, “You were begging, you were begging suburban women to love you, weren’t you?” I said, “No, no, I was just having fun. We were just having fun.” These people are sick. They are bad. They are bad. But they want to decimate Florida seniors and seniors, all seniors, okay? And by the way, what I’ve done for suburban women, but suburban people, people that live in the suburbs, that’s really the dream. That’s the American dream. And you know, 30% of the people, because people say, “Oh, is that racist?” 30% of the people living in the suburbs are minority groups, Hispanic American, black American. Think of it, Asian American. 30, 31% are from minority groups.
For years Joe Biden fought to cut your social security. He wanted to cut it. He wanted to knock it out and Medicare, which Joe has now falsely denied. You notice? Oh, I loved it yesterday. The way he denied that. So does that mean you want to get rid of fossil fuel Joe? Oh yes. That’s what it means. Thank you. This debate let’s end it. Let’s end it right now. By the way I got treated, I thought, very fairly by the anchor. I thought, right, Kristen, I was surprised. She’s been a little bit rough on me over the years. I was surprised, but her network has been crazy, NBC con test, C-O-N con test. I thought Kristen did a very good job yesterday. Some people said she interrupted me much more than she interrupted sleep Joe. But that’s because he didn’t have that much to say, so. But no, I thought she was fair. I said it to her in the show, I said, “I think you’ve handled it very professionally.” It’s not easy. So today I want to show you Joe Biden’s own words. The video I’m about to play was created by Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie. You know, Bernie is the single greatest loser. The way he loses, he gets sportsmanship of the year, right? What they did to him four years ago was quite terrible. What they did to him was even… Then he just goes back to Congress and talks. He’s crazy Bernie. A lot of his people are going to come with us because you know why? They love our trade policy. Because he, like me, understands how badly we’ve been taken advantage of by other countries, including our allies by the way. The video I’m about to play was created by crazy Bernie earlier this year to expose Joe Biden’s atrocious record and his egregious lies. Go ahead, play it Mr Deville.
[inaudible 00:30:03] You have been on the floor of the Senate. You’ve been in the Senate for a few years now. Time and time again, talking about the necessity, with [inaudible 00:30:58] about cutting social security. How you [inaudible 00:30:58]
No.
You’re being flippant.
No. When I argued [inaudible 00:30:25]federal spending, I meant social security as well. I meant Medicare and Medicaid. I meant [Inaudible 00:30:39]. I meant every single solitary thing in that government.
[inaudible 00:30:46].
I promise you. And I not only tried it once, I tried it twice, I tried it a third time and I tried it a fourth time.
Joe are you revealing [inaudible 00:30:58]
I’m saying that you have been on the floor of the Senate, time and time again, talking about the need to cut social security, Medicare and [inaudible 00:31:02]. Is that so?
No, that is not true.
That is not true?
That is not true. [inaudible 00:31:09]. I meant every single solitary thing in that government. Everything was on the table. I did not support any of those cuts, in social security, or in [inaudible 00:31:16].
Oh. Oh, everything was on the table. You just said it. Including the US government cuts to social security.
In order to get the kinds of changes we need on other [inaudible 00:30:59] We did not cut. People like me helped stop it.
All I would say to the American people [inaudible 00:31:43]. You have said it many, many times. I’m surprised you can defend it. You can change your mind on it, but you can’t[Inaudible 00:31:48].
I’ll tell you what, do these people do a good job? Do they do a good job? No, he’s a liar. He lies about everything. He’s now lying about not being a corrupt politician. I called him last night. I don’t want to say that, but he’s a corrupt politician and he’ll lie. But he lied about that. He lied about fracking and he’ll look at you and he’ll lie. He goes, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” This goes on for a year. Then he goes to Pennsylvania. He says. “There’ll be fracking.” And then you’ll say, “Well, wait, you said there will be none.” He’ll say, “No. I never said that.” This guy is either really stupid or he lies, at a level that nobody’s ever seen before.
By the way, that’s a great video. Who did that video? I love that video. Who the hell did it? I have some good, talented people. Under my leadership, no one will touch your Medicare and nobody will touch your social security, okay? By the way, that’s a devastating video. I just saw it for the first time. That’s devastating.
Now Biden’s pushing free government healthcare, which is socialized medicine and mass amnesty for illegal aliens, meaning he wants to take care of illegal aliens before he takes care of our seniors. And you know, the problem is we all want to take care of everybody. But if you ever do that, where you give Medicare, you give free everything, including education, you’re going to have this country swamped with millions and millions of people from all over the world, wanting to pour in to get. You can’t do it. And it would obliterate your Medicare and your social security, totally obliterate it. Joe Biden cares more about illegal aliens that he does about senior citizens. And that’s true. And you see it in that clip. I believe that American seniors must come first, okay? Must come first. That’s true. Must come first.
Last night, Biden outlined a plan, to create socialized medicine, raiding Medicare, to fund his government takeover. Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member of the United States Senate… By the way, Kamala will not be your first female president. She will not be your first female president. That’s not the way it’s supposed to be. We’re not supposed to have the socialist… Look, we’re not going to be a socialist nation. We’re not going to have a socialist president, especially a female socialist president. We’re not going to have it. We’re not going to put up with it. It’s not going to happen. Most liberal member, more so than Bernie of the US Senate, co-sponsors a socialist healthcare plan to end Medicare, as you know it, and Medicare works, Medicare works. We love our Medicare. It does work. And eliminate Medicare advantage, which nearly 2 million Florida seniors depend on, including one out of every two Hispanic seniors. You see how well I’m doing with Hispanic? Do you see? They’re going crazy. No, they’re going crazy.
They don’t know what happened. They go like our Democrat rivals that have it a lot of times. African American doing well, Hispanic, Hispanic is like, they don’t know what’s going on. Not the Hispanics I’m talking the Democrats are saying, “What the hell is going on here?” You’re going to have a big surprise. You know that beautiful, beautiful… You heard about the red wave, right? It’s called the great wave. We’re all waiting for that great red wave.
But we’re supposed to be… All these votes are going to come in and then we catch them up later on because our people like to go to vote, like me, but we catch up later on. There’s only one problem, in a lot of cases we’re already winning. This is before the wave. We’re already winning.
So a lot of interesting things are happening and those guys back there are saying… Well, some of them like it I think, but you know, the interesting thing, without me, you know, what’s going to happen to their ratings? Bom, bom. Can you imagine if you had four years of covering sleepy Joe? It wouldn’t be four years.
Since I took office, we’ve reduced Medicare advantage premiums by 34%. Good management. Socialist healthcare programs, like the one supported by Biden and Harris always end up denying coverage to the sick and the elderly in order to reduce the soaring cost. Our opponents want to turn America into a communist Cuba, into a socialist Venezuela. If you look at the ideology that these people are talking about, take a look at Portland with the anarchists all over the place. By the way, we’re asking the governor for approval to go in and clean out that mess, which has been going on for 140 days. But it’s really been going on for many years. It’s been going on like at Portland, anarchists, and it’d be so easy.
Look at what we did in Minneapolis. After 10 days of rioting and everything else, we sent in the National Guard. They lined up. They lined up again, again, again. World’s most expensive outfits, 250,000 a piece. Helmets and the like are solid computer, right? And they had their tear gas, they had their pepper spray, which the Democrats don’t want you to use. They don’t want you to use anything. They want you to get hit. They want you to get hit with rocks and stones. But they had their tear gas and they just marched forward. And in one and a half hour, the whole thing was over. It was all over. The only problem is they should have called us in sooner.
If Biden wins, the radical left will transform this country into something that you will not recognize. They want to shatter the middle-class with trillions of dollars of new taxes, four trillion dollars, pack the Supreme court with far left judges, 16, 18, 20.
… far left judges 16, 18, 20. And how do you like Amy Coney Barrett? Everybody. She’s great. She’s great. She made them look a little foolish, didn’t she? As the Democrats went after her, it was like, bomp. “What do you have written down? What do you have written down on your pad?” ” Nothing.” That’s cool. Happened to be a Republican that asked the question. Figure that one out, right? They want to unleash the violent rioters, criminal aliens, MS-13 killers, and they will indoctrinate your grandchildren and your children with poisonous anti-American lies in their schools, which I ended, which we’ve ended. If you want your grandchildren to grow up in a free nation where they can speak their minds and pursue the American dream then you must defeat Sleepy Joe Biden and the radical left. Have to do it.
And it’s not really Joe. Look, let’s face it. Joe doesn’t have a clue, but he’s surrounded by people that definitely they’ve got some problems. You’ve got to recheck the left wing fascism and vote for American freedom. Our country is set to be greater than ever before. Watch, watch. We’re set. We’re joined today by some incredible people, and the man I just mentioned, he’s just a friend of mine. He said, “I’d love to run for Governor.” And he did run and I endorsed him and he ran and he went like a rocket ship. He was a great candidate. He had to run a candidate against a very, very powerful, very powerful, great Democrat with a tremendous future. They said, “He’s going to be the future of the Democrat Party.” How’s he doing, by the way? Is he doing fine? I think Ron did him a favor by beating him. He did the Democrats a favor by beating him, right?
But Ron DeSantis became your Governor. You have an incredible first lady in Casey DeSantis, decides, and they’re here. Hey, Ron, how are we doing? If we don’t win, I’ll never speak to him again. A warrior, a great guy that has always been there for me. He’s tough. He’s strong. He’s smart. Congressman Mike Waltz. Congressman. And a man with maybe the greatest name in politics, who also, whenever you need him, he’s there and he loves your state and he loves our country. Daniel Webster. How’s that name? How is that name? Hello, Daniel. What a name. With a name like that, how can you lose it in politics? Daniel Webster. Congressional candidate, who’s way ahead in the polls, Kat Cammack. She’s way ahead. How’s that number looking, Kat? It’s huge. She’s known great. She’s a future star. And a future current and past star and a really great friend of mine, somebody that has always been there, former Florida Attorney General, she could have anything she wanted, by the way, anything, former Attorney General, Pam Bondi. Great woman, great person.
She could have anything she wants. When you’re going back into running or something, or anytime you don’t want to come into the administration, just call. But I hear she’s doing very well, to put it mildly, right? All Biden and his handlers in the media want to talk about today is COVID, COVID, COVID. You know that. You just turn on CNN, look, their light just went off, you turn on CNN, you turn on MSDNC, you turn on these networks, there’s COVID, COVID, COVID. On November 4th, you won’t hear anything about it because we are rounding that turn. You won’t hear. But they wanted to scare you to try to make you vote for Biden. That’s all he can talk about because his record is horrible. And by the way, his record with the H1N1, which he always refers to as swine flu, was horrendous. The person that ran it, his chief of staff, right, Steve, ran it, the person, the chief of staff said it was a catastrophe. “We didn’t know what we were doing.” It was an absolute disaster.
Now he’s going to come in and tell us what to do. Do you ever see where he said, “You were late,” except when I closed it to China, he said I shouldn’t close it. For two and a half months he said I shouldn’t lose it then he ultimately admitted that he was wrong. And then he amazingly got a nomination, which he should have never gotten because you know why? Pocahontas, if she would have gotten out three days early, it’s true. She took all of Bernie’s on Super Tuesday. It’s true. Do you agree with that, Congressman? She took all of his votes away. All he needed was a few more of us. He would have won every state. So you have somebody that really got a little bit lucky. In prime time, they used to call him 1% Joe. Now, in far less than prime time, he gets the nomination. Figured this one. Only in the world of politics can this happen.
But if you watch CNN and MSDNC, the networks, that’s all they talk about. They focus on case numbers, case numbers. You know why we have so many case numbers? Because we do more testing than any country in the world times five, 10, 20. You have many countries don’t do any testing so they don’t have any cases. You have many, many countries that have very few cases because they don’t do testing. We test. We have tests like you wouldn’t believe. We got started because the fake news would say, “Where’s the testing?” We did more. We have the best tests in the world, and there’s plenty good about testing too. The bad thing is you find cases. Baron Trump, young man, 14, strong. So he tests positive. I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” They said, “No, it’s okay.”
The doctor, great doctor, White House doctor, Sean. I said, 15 seconds later, “How’s Baron doing?” “He’s all better, sir.” I said, “What are you talking about?” The fact that is young people, 99.99 or something young people, their immune systems, I hate to say it, they’re a little stronger than our immune systems, right? Well, I got it and here we are. Here we are. It works out good. Here we are. And the good news, once you get it, you’re immune. Now, it used to be before I got it you were immune for life. I heard you were immune for life. Once I got it, they said, “No, it’s only four months.” Okay. We have a double standard. You ever notice that? It was always once you get it, you’re immune. I get it, “Nope. It’s only good for four months.” It’s the fake news.
Last night, Biden in his very weak debate performance, did you see some of the debates, 91% to 9%, 91% in my favor, 91 to 9, I like that, I like the sound of that, but last night he said, “America is entering a dark winter.” Isn’t that really inspirational? He’s running for President. Think of it. We have this guy that can’t even speak and he goes, “We’re entering a dark winter.” So inspirational, but he’s trying to scare people, basically. He’s trying to get something because he’s been such a failure at every level of government that this is something. But what they don’t remember is the swine flu and how bad it was. I bring that up whenever I can. But we’re not entering a dark winter. We’re entering the final turn and approaching the light at the end of the tunnel. That’s the way I look at it.
I took very rapid action to ban travel from China and Europe. And Biden opposed it. We pioneered incredible therapies and we reduced the fatality rate by 85%. Think of that, what we’ve learned, what we’ve learned. And we went out and we made just incredible things. The equipment we made, the equipment that we bought, the ventilators. We’re the king of ventilators now as a country. Everybody has ventilators. We’re sending them all over the world. We’re making them by the thousands. We’re the only one who could do anything like that. It’s the biggest mobilization of anything since World War Two, the ventilator, the big thing. And I’m working to make the antibody treatment that I received available free to anybody that needs it, and they will have it done pretty soon.
All I know I can talk to this group, because we have something to get comment. All I know is I didn’t feel too good, and it’s been a long time since I didn’t feel so good. I didn’t have time to feel bad, right? But I didn’t feel so good. I said, “Doc, I’m not feeling too great here. And he said, “Let me check it out. Oh, you’re positive.” That’s not what I wanted to hear. But I can’t put myself into a basement of the White House. I don’t have that luxury. No, no, I’m the President of the United States. I can’t put myself into a beautiful bedroom and not come out for a year and a half someplace at the White House. I’ve got to work. I meet with military leaders. I meet with foreign leaders. I meet with Gold Star families. I meet with so many people. I can’t close myself up. And I say, “Oftentimes, I just met a lot of people. That’s risky.” And then one day I got it. I mean, I got it. And the First Lady got it. But we got it.
You see a lot of people, but we have a job to do. And we beat it and we beat it and we beat it. It was good. But I will tell you, I wasn’t feeling great and I’m laying in bed, and one thing when you’re President, you’re going to find this out, Mr. Congressman, one thing, when you’re President, you’re not feeling good, you’re laying in a bed, you’ve got more doctors than any human being has ever had. I had 12 doctors, I had doctors from the greatest schools in the world. John’s Hopkins was there and Walter Reed Medical Center. These people are unbelievable, the job they do. The job they do for our incredible soldiers, our wounded warriors, our people that come home that are badly injured, badly hurt, the job they do is incredible. So I’m laying there not feeling my best, and every doctor had a different specialty, and I had more hands on me than any human being, and I didn’t like it. I said, “Come on, let’s make this quick.”
But the bottom line is I took this Regeneron, it’s called, and I wake up the next morning and I felt like Superman. It’s like, “Get me out of here. I’ve got to get back to the people.” I don’t know. Maybe it works. Maybe it doesn’t. Maybe it was me. No, there he is. Superman. Look at that. Super Trump. Wow. Look at this guy. Do you live at the villages? I don’t think so. Do you? You don’t. Do you really? This guy lives at the villages. I think I’ll move in. I have an idea. I will sell Mar-A-Lago, and I’ll move to the villages. You know what? It’s not the worst idea. I like that idea. I like that idea. I like the people here. We’ll have 100 million vaccine doses before the end of this year and seniors will be the first in line. We’re taking care of our seniors. Under my plan, you will get incredible lifesaving therapies. Our therapies are incredible. Remdesivir just got approved. You saw that. Just today got approved.
And the FDA has moved at a pace that they’ve never moved before. They’re approving things in weeks which used to take years. That’s a little prodding for me, I have to be honest with you. But they’re doing it. They’re doing it. They’re doing a great job. You will get a vaccine that ends the epidemic or the pandemic and it ends it and eradicates it. But without it, it goes away. But with it, it goes away faster, and it’s going to happen very, very soon. You’re going to have it very soon. A lot of great companies are right there. You’ll get to see your friends, families, and loved ones and you’ll get to enjoy being with them in their golden years. It’s a sad thing where you can’t be near people. I mean, did you ever hear of anything like this? You can’t be near people when they’re in trouble. But where we’re going to be very close. We’re very, very close. You watch.
Under Biden’s land, you’ll be locked down for years. The cure will be worse than the problem itself. Remember that. You’ve got to lead your life. And you know what? Some people want to say it and that’s good. Do it, do it. I’m like, lead your life, right? And some people agree with me. But if you want to stay in, if you want to do what you’re doing, you do it. If you want to get out and you want to be careful and socially distance and all of the things, you could wear a mask if you can’t socially distance, but there are a lot of things you can do. But some people want to stay in. And that’s okay. There’s nothing wrong with it. But you’re going to have a vaccine and it’s going to be an incredible success.
Wait until you see these vaccines that they’re coming out with, and you’re going to have therapeutics and therapies and cures. To me, the cure or the therapy is more important than the vaccine. Not everybody agrees. I think you go in, and even the fact that it’s there, Regeneron, it had a hell of an effect on me. And somebody said I looked better last night than I used to. And I said, “I think it was Regeneron.” But to me, I don’t know, maybe not everybody agrees, but to me knowing that there’s something that can knock it out, to me, is actually more important than a vaccine. But the vaccines are coming. Therapeutics are already here and coming, and, in my opinion, the therapeutics in some cases are already cures.
Under my administration, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we’re doing it again. So it’s called Make America Great Again, Again. Right? Make America Great Again, Again. So we’re going to change all the hats. You’re going to have to go out to buy a new one. It’s going to have again, again, exclamation point. In my first three years, we increased family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years under the last administration. Think of what that means. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. we lifted nearly seven million Americans out of poverty, including more than 1.5 million Hispanic Americans. And when the virus hit, we experienced the smallest contraction, think of that, the smallest of any major country and the fastest recovery of any country in the world. We’re recovering at a level that nobody’s seen.
And that’s despite the fact the Democrat Governors have a lot of their states closed. When you look at Michigan, although we just won the court case against her, the only one that was given freedom was her husband, he was the only one that was allowed to go sailing on the lake. Nobody else could do it. But we just won the case. It was unconstitutional what she was doing. She was running it like a prison camp. And you have Pennsylvania, you have North Carolina, and you have other places, they’ve got to open them up. I guarantee, November 4th they’ll say, “Well, we’ve decided to open.” They just want to keep the numbers down as much as possible. It’s not going to help them. Since April, we’ve created a record 11.4 million jobs. Under Biden, it 30 months to recover more than half of the jobs lost to the crisis. We did it in five months. Think of that. 30 months, my, my.
And they had the slowest recovery in history or in 1929, since 1929. They don’t know which, they say it both ways. But 1929’s a long time ago. It was the slowest recovery since 1929. We’ve achieved energy independence, and we’ve done it while protecting our pristine environment. I recently signed an order placing a moratorium on offshore drilling off the coast of Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and I decided to add Florida. Is that okay? We added Florida. We didn’t want to make you too unhappy. No, we added Florida right at the beginning. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history and we’re finishing the wall 400 miles and Mexico is paying for the wall. You do know that, okay? They like to say, “After years of fighting for it,” I made a terrible mistake, I should have said, “We will not build the wall. We will never ever build a wall. We will never build the wall,” and the Democrats would have insisted that I build it.
We should have done that. If we did that, we’d have no problem. It took me two years to get this thing done. But when you’re a developer from New York or a developer anywhere, getting financing is always not so hard. The Biden-Harris plan would also increase refugee admission by over 700%. Think of that. Refugee admission. This is agreed to this. We call it The Manifesto between Joe and Crazy Bernie, and AOC plus three too. She’s a great student. She drew the environmental plan. She’s a great student of the environment. How many days do you think she’s …
… She’s a great student of the environment. How many days do you think she spent at her college studying the environment? Three? They pledged to terminate all national security travel bans. They will open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism, and you saw what happened in France just the other day. And we send our sincere best wishes to the President Macron who’s doing a good job, not an easy job. I’m keeping the terrorist jihadist and violent extremist out of our country. Keep them the hell out. I instituted a ban and they all said I was a bad guy, but you know what, I’ll be a bad guy.
Does anybody object to the ban on having radical Islam come in? The radical Islamic terrorists, no, we do have a ban. We invested $2.5 trillion in rebuilding our US military. It’s the best and strongest it’s ever been, all made in the USA. With the best equipment in the world, hypersonic rockets go seven times faster than what we have right now. Think of it, we have the greatest military than we’ve ever had. And when I came here first, the world’s most overrated general said to me, sir, we have no ammunition. I said, that’s not good.
No president should ever hear that. Well, we now have ammunition like we’ve never had ammunition before. And for our veterans, we have veterans here, we passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. Thank you, fellows. Thank you. VA Choice, VA Accountability, and everyone said that could never happen. We just got a 91% approval rating from the Vets. That’s never happened. It’s never been anyone near there. You ever remember, you were growing up, we were living it, every night they’d have on the news these horror stories about the Vets and how bad they were? You don’t see that anymore. Now, they’ll go out and they’ll find a Vet someplace or somehow, and you’ll see it tonight. There he is, look, Uncle Sam is unhappy. Look at this guy. You look good. Wow. Wow. 105-years-old, wow. Beautiful. Beautiful couple. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you very much. 105. You look like you’re, to me, about 68. You look beautiful. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Beautiful. That’s great. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the mass murderer of American troops. Soleimani is dead.
I withdrew from the last administration’s Iran nuclear deal. I recognize the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And instead of never ending wars in the Middle East, we have now for the first time, very close to Middle East peace without blood all over the sand. We just signed another day. We just signed another one today, UAE, Bahrain and today Sudan, and we have them lined up. Nobody thought this was going to happen. It turns out that I’m the peace president. Nobody thought that. Remember? They used to say, he’ll be at war.
Remember? They said North Korea, you would have been had Hillary won, crooked Hillary, you’d be at war, a nuclear war with North Korea. Whatever happened to that war? Remember? Biden will trap us in nothing but endless Middle East wars and other wars because he has no clue. I did more in 47 months and sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years. It’s true. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. It’s a vote for the American dream. It really is. It is. It’s a vote for the American dream.
Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults or law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities where we protect criminals. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to life, and we will keep, remember this. We will hold on to our second amendment, let me put it very simply. Because your second amendment is in serious … Your second amendment without me is in serious trouble.
I’ll tell you think about this. When you think about it, I said the other day, it’s I’m standing here. We got the Democrats, we got the fake news, we got the lame stream media. We have the big tech. We have the rhinos. We have the deep state. We have bad Republicans, mostly good. We had a 96% approval rating the other day in the Republican Party and 53% overall. Did you see that 53%? That scares them. They don’t like the 53%. 53% does not lose elections. In history, in history when you’re at 53%, you don’t lose elections. So they’re getting a little bit nervous now.
But we’ve had all these different groups and here we stand and we have the White House and they don’t. Think of it, we have the White House and they don’t. And we stopped them from doing very bad things. We will strike down terrorists who threatened our citizens and we will keep America out of these endless, ridiculous, long term, foreign wars. 19 years in Afghanistan. They’re all coming home. You’re welcome. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest thing that you want me to see, price transparency.
Doesn’t sound like much. It’s bigger than health. It’s already done, kicks in on January 1st. Further reduce the cost of prescription drugs [inaudible 01:03:40] and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always. Always. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And NASA is now the most incredible thing that you’ve ever seen. And let me tell you, when I took over three and a half years ago, it was an abandoned mess. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.
We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. We live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Florida. For the last four years, I have been going to the battle for you with everything I have. There has never been a president who has been treated so badly as I have. It’s all turning. All just fine.
And by the way, this should never happen to another president. We caught them spying on our campaign. We caught them cheating. We caught them doing all sorts of really bad things. They should really honestly, will happen to them what they did us. They spied, they cheated. It’s treason. Let’s see what happens. Let’s see what happens. But it’s a disgrace and it should never, ever happen to another president. But now I am relying on you to get your friends, to get your family, to get your neighbors, get you to coworkers and get out and vote. So important.
From Tampa to Tallahassee, from Jacksonville to Fort Lauderdale, places I all know very much. From Pensacola, where I’m going in a little while to the villages. We stand on the shoulders of red blooded American Patriots, who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul, and you did that. You poured out your heart. You poured out your sweat and your soul to secure our liberty, our liberty, right, and defend our great freedom as a nation. We inherit the legacy of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, dug out the Panama Canal, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism.
And from here in this beautiful state landed our brave American astronauts on the face of the moon. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. That’s what we’re doing. With your help, your devotion, your drive, we’re going to keep on working, we’re going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement and there has never been a movement like this. There’s never been crowds like this. There’s never been crowds. And this isn’t even a rally. This is a stop at the villages. This isn’t a rally. I have a rally in a little while in Pensacola, but this isn’t a rally. This is a stop at the villages to say hello to people that have been with me so long.. I’ve been seeing it. I’ve been seeing it. You’re willing to get in fights from your golf carts. You’re willing to do whatever the hell. Where is that person? I love that person. I love our people.
But this is just as friendly stop at the villages and look what happens. It’s a beautiful thing. It’s a beautiful thing. But there never has been a movement like this. There’s been movements, but you’ve never had. When Joe Biden’s stops, if he has three, four people. I mean, no, seriously, he has the circles, the little circles, which I love. The guy that does the circle is very good. I’m a perfectionist, nice, big, beautiful yellow. They’re very far apart because he can’t get any people. There’s only five of them and they have a hard time filling them up.
And here we have thousands of people no matter where we go. There has never been a movement like this. And it’s a movement of loving our country. It’s a movement of not letting these maniacs take over our country and destroy it. So, I just think it’s such a great honor to finally be with the villages. I wanted to do this so long. I wanted to do it last time. And I told you I did, but they gave me this big ballroom. They hold not enough people and the place was packed outside, but this is really great. And I want to thank my people for putting this together.
This was great. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And we gather with the incredible, unbelievable, beautiful people of the villages in Florida. We have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, villages. We love you, villages. Thank you. Great to be here. Thank you. Thank you. Get out and vote.
Thank you. What a nice group. Thank you very much. Beautiful, thank you.
Four more years.
Thank you very much, please. We are going to be talking to our great senior citizens, that’s what I’m here for today.
[crosstalk 00:00:50].
We love our senior citizens. And I’m honored to be here in Fort Myers to reaffirm my solemn pledge to America’s seniors, it’s so important to me, I happen to be a senior. I will protect you, I will defend you, and I will fight for you with every ounce of energy and conviction that I have. You devoted your life to this country and I am devoting my life to you. My administration is working every day to give our amazing senior citizens the care, support, and respect that you deserve, and you understand that, we’ve worked together for a long time. As president, I’m deeply aware that America’s 54 million seniors have borne the heaviest burden of the China virus. Many older Americans have endured months of isolation, missing weddings, births, graduations, church, and family reunions, you know that very well, you know it all too well. My heart breaks for every grieving family that has lost a precious loved one, I feel their anguish, and I mourn their loss, I feel their pain.
I know that the terrible pain that they have gone through, and you lose someone, and there’s nothing to describe what you have to bear, there’s nothing to describe it. In times of challenge, we turn to our fellow Americans for a shoulder to lean on and we turn to God for healing and strength, and together we will overcome. My message to America’s seniors today is one of optimism, confidence, and hope. Your sacrifice has not been in vain. The light at the end of the tunnel is near. We are rounding the turn, I say that all the time, some of the media doesn’t like hearing it, but I say it all the time, we’re rounding that turn. Don’t listen to the cynics, and angry partisans, and professional pessimists, we are Americans and we will prevail, we are prevailing, and we are… It’s amazing what’s happening, if you look at what’s going on, it’s been really very amazing.
I’m moving heaven and earth to safeguard our seniors from the China virus to deliver life-saving therapies in record time and to distribute a safe and effective vaccine before the end of the year, and we’re really doing it even sooner than that, you see what’s going on, we have the vaccines getting ready to go. Seniors will be the first in line for the vaccine and we will soon be ending this pandemic, hasn’t happened a thing like this since 1918, 1917, that was a bad one too, that was a real bad one. I will not rest until we’ve eradicated this plague from our country, and our lives, and our world, we want it out. When the China virus arrived, we launched the largest mobilization since World War II. Our aggressive and early action saved more than 2 million lives compared to the best estimates from last spring, you remember when they were giving you estimates.
Since the beginning, our nation’s seniors have been my top priority, it was obvious very early on that it was affecting the seniors not young people. Young people are… They have that strong immune system and I give all credit to them, but they have a strong immune system, and 99.99, think of that. But, when you get into people that have a few more years, it’s a little bit more difficult, when you get a lot more years, it’s a lot more difficult. But, what they’ve done with therapeutics now and what they’ve done with all of the other things that they’re doing, it’s incredible. We heightened mitigation and surge testing to protect those at highest risk. We sent billions and billions of dollars in funding to personal protective equipment and distributed rapid testing to 15,400 nursing homes all over the country.
We’ve worked with a lot of governors and some have done a great job, and some have done not a great job, and some have done a very poor job, actually, but some have done a great job, but we’re working very closely with the governors of the states. Just this week, even the New York Times, this was shocking, was forced to admit that ‘experts are saying with genuine confidence that the pandemic in the United States will be over far sooner than they expected’. And they’re right, but I was shocked to hear coming out of the New York Times, right? I was a little [inaudible 00:05:55], and it’s thanks to my administration’s Operation Warp Speed, incredible people. Because of advances in treatment we pioneered, and we have many treatments, but because of these great advances, we’ve reached the point where the fatality rate is reduced by 85% since April and now it’s up to probably 91%. Well, I’m here, I tell you.
Four more years.
Thank you. Well, I don’t know what they gave me, but give me some more of it right now and you can have some too. No, I know exactly what that gave, it was actually pretty amazing. I’m also working with the FDA and HHS to make the antibody treatment that I received, it’s called Regeneron plus… Also, it’s incredible, and what they can do today is incredible. And they felt very confident even six months ago when they started, think of it, we got this all done in a very short period of time and now we’re going for emergency use, because we’re going to make it available to everyone who needs it for free, anybody in the country. And Eli Lilly is making a very similar drug, and Alex, they’re working very hard on that, right? Alex Azar, so thank you very much, because I want people to get it and we’re getting it free, right? So, we got to do that. If you need it, if you don’t need it, that’s even better, okay? That’s even better, but if you need it, right? You get it.
It’s really pretty amazing what happened, because I wasn’t feeling great and the next day I wake up and I’m saying, “Who can I fight today?” Thank you. So, our groundbreaking therapies have significantly improved and improved our outcomes for elderly patients, but I’ll not relent until all American seniors are safe, you’re going to be safe, a hundred percent safe, and we’re at a point where really so much progress has been made. Under Operation Warp Speed, we’re on track to deliver at least 100 million doses of a vaccine this year, and could even be a little bit sooner than what they were originally anticipating, with hundreds of millions more to quickly follow, Alex, remember that Alex. Today, I’m thrilled to announce that we have just finalized a partnership with CVS and Walgreens, two places you know pretty well, I guess, to immediately deliver the vaccine directly to nursing homes at no cost to our seniors, right? No cost.
These are very effective, once you have that vaccine you can open those doors and say, “Here I am.” But with everything that I say and everything I do, if you feel safer at home… And we can all be like, ” Let’s get out there.” And I felt as president, I knew there was risk, but I had to be out, I can’t just be locked in a basement, to put it… Lock them in a basement. I felt I had to be out there, I would see Gold Star families, [inaudible 00:00:09:44], and I’ve been looking forward for months to come into the White House, and many, many other people, military people and heads of state. And I know you put yourself at risk, but you can’t… You have to lead your life. But I say this, there are people also that would rather stay in place, stay where you are, and to those people, and I understand that very well, stay, just relax, stay until it’s gone, and it’ll be gone, but stay. Don’t feel badly or don’t feel good about it, just stay, if you feel safe, stay.
I’m working as hard as I can so you can kiss and hug your children and grandchildren very soon, that’s something I missed also, I will be honest with you. As we shelter high-risk Americans with extreme vigilance, we must also allow lower-risk Americans to return to work and return to school. I mean, children should go to school. My young son, Baron, had it, and he had it, and all of a sudden he doesn’t have it, it’s like… It was different, it’s a whole different deal, and they should go to school, and they have to, because… I talk about the cure, right? It cannot be worse than the problem itself, it’s a very simple statement, but the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. And with young children, they have to go to school, they have to be with other kids, they have to grow up, they can’t lose a year of their life. And if you look at some of these lockdowns that the Democrats are doing in some states, if you look at North Carolina, and Pennsylvania, and Michigan, we won the case against her in Michigan.
I mean, she’s running like a prison except for her husband who’s allowed to go boating, that doesn’t work out somehow. Fortunately, they caught him, he was going to go on the lake boating, that’s nice, but nobody else was allowed to do it. But we won the case against her for Michigan, and we freed up the state, and it’s a great thing, I mean, it’s a great thing, we freed up the state. Because that whole thing with drugs, and alcohol, and depression and all of the horrible things, we could go over a long list of things, but we can’t let that happen. So, we want the Democrat, radical left, in many cases, Democrats, we wanted to open their states, open up your states, and we’re very careful with our seniors, and that’s different, but open up your states, get it back.
Despite punishing society-wide lockdowns in Europe, I don’t know if you’ve been watching, they’re now experiencing a massive surge in cases. Daily cases are 2500% higher in the United Kingdom, as an example, and 722% higher in Europe than in the United States, okay? No, think of that. And we wish them… And we’re working with them closely, we’re making ventilators for them. For many of the countries over there, we became the ventilator king. I mean, we didn’t have many ventilators, we had… Really, we inherited bare cupboards, I said the cupboards were bare, in many of the states they had… Cupboards were bare, and now they’re loaded up and they’re ready…
Cupboards were bare. And now they’re loaded up and they’re ready. But the hardest thing are the ventilators because of the complexity of the machine, and the cost, the size, but the pure complexity. And we make thousands of ventilators now a month and we’re sending them all over the world. We’re all set with the ventilators but we’re sending them all over the world. But hopefully you won’t need them. Soon you won’t even need them. I really think you’re going to not need the ventilators, hopefully soon, very soon. But sadly in Europe, the average daily deaths are really soaring. 402% higher in the United Kingdom. 493% higher in Europe. Meanwhile, in the United States deaths have decreased by 37%. So that’s something, right.
The fake news doesn’t want to tell you that, right? They want no piece of that. They don’t want anything to do with that. So whether you’re Republican or Democrat, we must use facts over fear. We have to. Science over hysteria, hope over despair, and the common good over partisan politics. And again, if you feel good, if you feel safe because it’s going to be gone, stay where you are. Don’t leave. Don’t say, “Oh gee, I have to get out.” The President said, “Let’s get out.” Stay where you are. I have a lot of friends, they’re strong people. They’re senior citizens. Great people, very successful people. Hi. Look, she’s waving. Hi. Thank you. Thank you, hun.
But you know they’re tough actually, but they feel comfortable until this has gone and there are people, and I do that. Do that. I might do that. If I weren’t in this position, maybe I’d be doing it myself. In this position, it’s a little tougher. But we cannot allow unscientific, panic driven, fear-based policies to deny our children and grandchildren their future, and their dreams. We can’t take a year or two years out of their lives. There’s a whole social thing going on there too.
These left wing lock downs will crush America, and my plan is very simple. We’re going to crush the virus and go back to exactly where we were. We’re almost getting back there now. So together, we will end this pandemic. We will rebuild our economy and we will ensure our seniors can live long, happy, secure, and healthy lives with your grandchildren and your children. You’re going to hug them, right? It’s good. Under my leadership next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country economically. We’re grateful to be joined today by Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex Azar. Alex, we’re counting on you. We’re counting… I’m going to blame him if this stuff doesn’t happen fast, right?
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services, a fantastic woman, Administrator Seema Verma. Thank you, Seema. Great job you’re doing. A friend of mine who’s become very, very popular, I guess that was what that big applause was. I was backstage, I said, “Who just came in?” I thought Elvis entered the room. It was your Florida Governor, Ron DeSantis. Stand up. That’s great, Ron. Great.
And by the way, we have some crowd. You see what’s going on outside? The mayor said, “He’s never seen anything like that. He’s never seen anything.” Now there’s a lot of love outside. I want to tell you. That’s a lot of love and we’re leading in the State of Florida, just so we understand. By perhaps a lot. Also with some warriors, Representatives Gus Bilirakis. Gus, Gus, great job, Gus. And another friend of mine, these are really terrific people, Greg Stube. Greg, thank you very much, Greg. Thank you. Thanks as well to Fort Myers, Mayor Randy Henderson. Randy. Thank you. Thank you, Randy. Good job, Randy. That’s quite a crowd, huh?
Welcome to town, Mr. President.
That’s good. Thank you very much. And Cape Coral Mayor Joe Coviello. Joe Coviello. Thank you, Joe. Great job. Great job. We’re also tremendously honored to be joined by World War II and Korean War veteran, a very brave guy, Wally Cortese. Wiley Cortese. Thank you, Wally. You look good, Wally. I’ll tell you, two wars and you’re looking good. Thank you, Wally. Appreciate it. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Thanks also to all of the members of the VFW Golden Gate Honor Guard, they’re with us today. Thank you. That’s so great. That’s so great. VFW. Fantastic job. Thank you very much for being here. As I fight to protect our amazing seniors from the China virus, I’m also fighting to protect you from another danger. One, which threatens everything we cherish, value and worked our entire lives to build and to defend. As we gathered today, seniors are under threat from a radical left movement that seeks to destroy the American way of life. We’re not going to allow it. And you know one thing, sleepy Joe and do nothing about it. The left has been taken over by socialists and Marxists and extremists and they have. They want to transform our nation into a country that would no longer be recognizable. And their agenda will shatter America’s seniors, their plan to delay the vaccine, delay therapies and prolong the pandemic will cost thousands and thousands of lives, will be horrifying for our country.
They are planned for higher taxes. They want to quadruple taxes. Every company will move out. They’ll go back to where they came. We had tremendous people, tremendous companies come into our country. We’re bring in tremendous jobs, 160 million jobs, we’ve never had anything like it, before the plague and then we’re building it back up again. Last four months, we’ve set records on employment, on hiring employment. And a number that, let’s say a year ago, wouldn’t have sounded great, but now sounds incredible, 7.8% unemployment. Think of it. People were talking about 42%. We’re back down to 7.8 and we’ll be soon down to the number where we were, seven months ago. Pretty amazing.
I never thought I’d be happy with 7.8%, but you know when you think about it, right, they were talking 39%, 42%. Ron, 7.8 is a pretty amazing thing. We did that in a rapid fashion. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it, actually. They’re planned for higher taxes and crippling regulations, however, would crater our economy. Their insane energy policies because you know they’re going to be fracking. Hey, Biden for a year and a half is saying there will be no fracking. Then he looks out, he gets the nomination because Elizabeth Warren refused to get out. So Bernie, a second time, that happened twice to Bernie. Bernie, he’s a hell of a loser. That’s one thing I’ll say. He knows how to lose. He knows how to lose. He loses he goes back to work like nothing happened. No, they took it away from him twice. I think the second time in a way worse, because she stayed in, she took the votes and sleepy Joe just got in there. That’s why you got to be careful. You got to be careful. You never know what happens.
But if you take a look and we can’t let any of this stuff happen. And you look at what’s happened to other countries, where they’ve had this philosophy, where they’ve had this ideology. We can’t let… But you watch what they’re saying about the fracking, where he said no, and he said it with such… It’s not like, “Well, I’ll think about it.” He’s doing the same thing with the courts right now. They’re going to pack the Supreme Court. You see what they want to do. Would be destruction of our country. But you take a look. So he says, “No, there will be no fracking.” These are the words. “There will be no fracking. You don’t understand what I just said. There will be no fracking.” And then he gets very agitated. “There would be no fracking.”
And he gets a nomination, goes to Pennsylvania, they inform him that they have a million jobs and fracking’s a big deal. And they like inexpensive energy, right? And so, he goes from, “There will be no fracking with great anger”, to “I never said they wouldn’t be fracking.” It’s the craziest thing. If that ever happened to me and the media doesn’t even talk about it. That’s just one of many things. Then he does that thing with the courts. You see that, right? He goes, “I’ll tell you after the election what I’m going to do.” How important is it? Because he’s going to put on radical, left, crazy judges that will destroy your lives. It’s the most important. They’ve always said… I’ve always heard, Ron, I’ve always heard this, that the most important thing a president does is pick Supreme Court Justices, right? I would say maybe the military, but let’s say it’s right there. And he has to create a list of more than just that, he has to create a list and let you know and he has to pick from that list. That’s what I did. I created a list of 25 people, highly, highly capable people. And a lot of people said, that’s why I won the election, actually. So I don’t know if that’s true or not. But it was a very important part, Mary, you understand mayors, you know that.
So their insane energy policies will abolish millions of jobs and cost seniors thousands of dollars per year in higher energy bills. Their anti-police agenda will empower violent mobs and put every community at risk. Their anti-suburban agenda threatens the property values of millions of American seniors and your families, who own homes in residential neighborhoods, in the suburbs. I’m saving the suburbs. People saying, “Well, women in the suburbs, do they like Trump?” I said, “Yeah, they liked me. You know why they like, because I’m saving their homes.” That’s why they like me. They may not like me, but they like what I’m doing, and that’s more important.
Oh boy, they have these crazy people. The people on television, I don’t know if suburban women, suburban women want security. They want safety. They want law and order. They want their homes to be protected. The socialist ideology that they will use and indoctrinate our youth with is like poisonous Anti-American propaganda.
The plan by Washington Democrats to give amnesty and free healthcare to illegal border crossers will obliterate Medicare, bankrupt your social security, robbing you of the benefits that you’ve paid for your entire lives. Look, take a look at Venezuela. People don’t realize, that was a wealthy country 18, 17 years ago. It was so wealthy. And it’s gone from being wealthy, they don’t have medicine, they don’t have food, they don’t have water. They don’t have anything. And it can happen here, just a much larger version with that ideology. And that’s the ideology that they’re looking at. It’s crazy.
These radicals will destroy Medicare with totally open borders. And by the way, you know the wall, it’s up to almost 400 miles. 400. 400 miles. And it goes down deep, tunneling. It goes down deep and up very high. Now it’s had a tremendous… We’ve never had a stronger Southern border than we have right now. It’ll be finished very soon. We’re doing 10 miles a week. That’s a lot. 10 miles a week. Army Corps of Engineers are also doing Lake Okeechobee and lots of other things, right? They’re doing a good job, right? They’re giving away your benefits, that’s what-
They’re giving away your benefits, that’s what they want to do to anyone in the world who trespasses into our country. And we all have big hearts and we want to take care of people. But when you say, “We’re going to give you free healthcare. We’re going to give you college education.” I sarcastically said once, “We’re going to give you a beautiful brand new Rolls-Royce. Okay? If you’re an illegal immigrant. And CNN went and they said, “The President lied to the seniors.” They just don’t get it. They get it. Actually, unfortunately they get it more than you would think. They’re a little bit on the evil side.
But, you’re going to bring millions of people … You’re going to bring millions and millions of people. It’s like, when you say, “Free healthcare, and free education, and free this and that,” millions of people are going to pour into the country. It’s not going to be stoppable. And we can’t let that happen. They care more about illegal aliens than they care about senior citizens, the Democrats. The left is coming after me because I’m defending you. And that’s true. That’s why they come after me. Every day they come … But we caught them on the Russian hoax. We finally caught them after two and a half years. Russia knows. Turned out to be the exact opposite. They’re the ones that were playing with Russia. That was a beauty. Hillary … Crooked Hillary. Now they’re the ones. Yeah, I agree with you. I used to just be quiet. And I agree with you 100%. Millions and millions of dollars they paid. And they tried to show it. It was the greatest hoax and the greatest political crime in the history of our country. That’s what they committed. But I’m the only one standing between their open borders and extremism and the healthcare benefits that you’ve earned and paid for. All your life, you paid for. As long as I’m President, no one will lay a hand on your Medicare or your social security. As a candidate, I made a sacred promise that I’d strengthen, protect and defend your Medicare benefits. And that’s exactly what I’ve done. I’ve done that, right?
My administration’s fought to deliver greater security, affordability, fairness, economic stability to our nation’s seniors. Under eight years of the previous administration, premiums for Medicare health plans went up including a 25% increase right here in Florida. That’s for the previous people. Under my administration, we’ve lowered Medicare Advantage premiums by a number nobody even believes, 34% nationwide. And today, it’s the lowest level in 14 years. Did you know that, Ron? That’s not a bad thing for you to put into your speech, right? Who would think that? No, but seriously, we’ve brought it way down. This group over here, they’ve done a great job. Thanks to our efforts, there are 2,000 … Thank you.
There are 2,000 more Medicare Advantage plans today than there were three years ago. That’s incredible. Think of that. That means more choice and more competition for better care at a much lower cost. When we rapidly expanded telehealth for Medicare beneficiaries during the pandemic, the number of tele-health users increased from 14,000 a week to 1.7 million a week. What’s that percentage? Yet, all of this danger, it’s all in danger because if these other people get in, they will end all of that. The telehealth … It’s interesting. We’ve learned something for children, they’re much better in a classroom than they are on a laptop. Okay? Children.
But for your health and what you can do, you can do so much of it, such a big percentage, better than going out and going through … This telehealth has been amazing. It’s been really incredible. It’s been an incredible thing. It’s increased like six, 7,000, I think 6500%. And it’s probably the only thing that came out of this whole deal that we really can take pleasure at, telehealth. It’s been really an incredible thing that’s happened. Over 130 Democrats in Congress, including far left Senator Kamala Harris, who is the most … I said, “He’ll never choose her because nobody treated him worse than her. Nobody.” Plus, her poll numbers were sinking. She never even got to Iowa. She never got there. And when I said, “Oh … ”
And by the way, didn’t Mike Pence do a good job the other night? Right? Good man. Did a great job. And I had a great … Thank you. Really, I had a lot of fun last night with that. That was a nice evening. It was a nice pleasurable evening. I had somebody going totally crazy last night. “But, I told you … I told you that.” She told me? She’s going to … Oh, okay. I believe you, right? No, but I understand that worked out very well last night. That’s what the word is, so that’s good. Another evening in paradise, I call it. They’re sponsoring a socialist healthcare plan that would annihilate your Medicare. The Democrats’ policy proposals may go by different names. They put all sorts of names. They say single payer, or so-called the public option.
But really, they’re all based on the same core promise, raiding Medicare to fund a socialist healthcare takeover. And it’s going to destroy your Medicare. That’s the one thing you know for sure. Every one of their plans involves rationing care, restricting access, denying coverage, slashing quality, extending wait times and massively raising your taxes. Other than that, it’s actually quite good. As we know from seeing these left wing policies in action around the world, seniors will be the victims. And that’s what happens, the first to go are the seniors, the victims are really the seniors. This is nothing that unique. Socialist healthcare plans always end up denying care and coverage to the sick and the elderly in order to control costs.
And they always feel that this is the easiest way to do it. We must not let them bring this lethal and deadly agenda to America. Don’t let it happen. Got to vote them out. Get out and vote. Democrat healthcare proposals would abolish private insurance for 180 million Americans. Just so you know, there are many people, they’ve had a good life, they’ve done well. They have private plans. They are unbelievable. They love their plan. Those plans are gone. Those plans are gone. They’d abolish the Medicare Advantage program that benefits 24 million seniors, including one out of two Hispanic seniors and one out of three African-American seniors who enrolled in the Medicare Advantage. Right?
And that will all be ended. It would be abolished, for big fat, ugly socialized medicine. You go to a hospital, you don’t feel good. Go to a hospital room and wait for three days to see a doctor. I will never allow that to happen. Under my administration, your Medicare Advantage is safe. Your benefits are protected. And I will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always, always, always. They always play that card, right? Remember they used to say, “Oh, he’s going to give up.” At first they said I was going to be in a war within the first week. Whatever happened to that, right? Just the opposite. Our great warriors are coming home. They’re all coming home. They’re all coming home. You’re welcome.
Look at North Korea, they thought would be a war and a war immediately with North Korea. How’s that worked out, right? It’s worked out very nicely. Talk, we’ll talk, keep talking. But it worked out very well. But the other thing they said, “He will destroy your social security.” Really? Did I? I said, “No.” No, they’re going to destroy it, because they’ll destroy our country. They’ll destroy your social security and they’ll destroy your country. And Joe won’t have any idea what happened, because he’s gone. Let’s face it. He’s gone. Another critical issue for senior citizens is the price of prescription drugs. This is something I’m very proud of, because we’ve lowered Part D prescription drug premiums by 12%, saving senior citizens $1.9 billion.
But the biggest yet to come, I stood up to big pharma, and that’s not easy. They got big money. They’re the biggest lobbyist in this country by far. And I signed an executive order, implemented a most favorite nations policy for the United States. For years you’ve heard, “We pay more for drugs than any other country.” Well, that’s not even close. We pay much more. And in other countries that we know very well take advantage of us and they pay a fraction. I mean, you wouldn’t even believe how much less, but a fraction. 25 cents for a pill, as opposed to $2 for a pill. Same pill from the same lab plant, right? And I instituted a favorite nations clause. I said, if Germany or some other country is getting our stuff low, I want a favored nations. Meaning, I want it for the same price. And they have gone crazy.
I have never seen so many ads. They put on more ads against me now than sleepy Joe Biden, I’m telling you, and they understand. Look, it should have been done a long time ago. This should’ve been done years ago. Plus, I got rid of the middleman and I gave Ron DeSantis the right to go to Canada in the meantime, because I think eventually you’ll be using this. But in the meantime, you’ll also be getting the rebates. Okay? Rebates, you know who they go to? The middlemen. You know how rich the middlemen are? I’m rich. These guys blow everyone away. I don’t know … Nobody even knows who the hell they are. Did you ever hear … Does anybody know a middleman? I would like to meet. It’s Biden’s son. It’s Hunter. Oh, it’s Hunter. I’ll bet you Hunter is a middleman. He’s collecting …
He’s like a vacuum cleaner, he follows his father around collecting. What a disgrace. It’s a crime family. You want to know something? It’s a crime family. He’s following his father. Hunter Biden is a middleman. Oh, that’s wild. No, these people are amazing. These middlemen, you’re right. Hunter made no money until his father became Vice President and now he’s like a vacuum cleaner. His father goes to Germany, Hunter’s right there. “Hey, give me a couple of million.” Not a couple of million. Hell of a lot more than a couple of million. That’s a shame. I’ll tell you what, it’s an organized crime family, as far as I’m concerned. I capped out of pocket costs … And the way they get protected by big tech and by the media, the media doesn’t want to ask … This is the hottest subject there is right now.
And I didn’t watch sleepy Joe last night. I just wanted to see what he looked like. He wasn’t looking too good. I just couldn’t watch, it was too painful. But, they didn’t … I understand that they did not ask him a question about this. Can you believe it? Now, think of it. And Stephanopoulos interviewed me two weeks ago and he was nasty. He was nasty. I mean, he was tough. He’s a tough guy.
I watched last night, the little stuff I watched and what I heard, it was like softballs, every … But he didn’t … This is the hottest subject there is. They didn’t ask them one question about their corruption in the family. They didn’t ask him one question about how big tech is protecting him. Big tech is not allowing anybody to … How about this? They took down, I guess, Kayleigh, but they took … How about Kayleigh? Isn’t she great? No, but they took down her Twitter site because she had the audacity to put up-
… on her Twitter site because she had the audacity to put up an article written in the New York Post, which is one of the biggest newspapers in the country. I think it’s the oldest newspaper in the country. They put up a article, and they took down her site. Can you believe what’s going on in this country? And then they talk about freedom of the press. They also said last night, it was very interesting, they talked about the transition, the friendly transition. Will you agree to the friendly … Of course the answer is yes. First of all, I don’t think there’s going to be a transition because we’re going to win but … Let’s hope we don’t have to worry about it. No, but think of this. They get up, “We demand a friendly transition.” Yet, we caught them spying on my campaign, and trying to take down the president of the United States. Right? That wasn’t too friendly. Right? That wasn’t too friendly, and we caught them cold.
Anyway, let’s get back to the medical parts of the world. This is much simpler to understand, if you think about it. But I capped out-of-pocket costs for insulin at $35 a month. People were going, literally they were going bankrupt over insulin, or they weren’t getting the insulin, which is a terrible thing. It’s $35 a month or less for seniors in many Medicare drug plans, saving them an average of nearly $450. I mean that’s a tremendous saving. Many cases much less than 35. Seema, in many cases much less than the 35. Right? Did you say $1 in some cases? What’s your lowest number? Come on, Seema. Let’s hear it. Huh? She doesn’t want to give too much. I think maybe $1 is too much. Okay. She’s very straight. She’s a straight player. You brought it down from what number? The 35 down from what Seema?
[inaudible 00:01:53].
Tremendously. Yeah. It’s a great job. You did that. But she would come up to me for a year and a half talking about the insulin. The insulin is the biggest, it’s such a problem for people where they’d go without it. They had no choice because it was too expensive. Great job both of you. Thank you very much.
I also announced that more than 35 million Medicare beneficiaries will soon receive a card in the mail with $200 that you can use to help pay for prescription drugs. But I was going to tell you, I’ve allowed Ron DeSantis now to go to Canada and buy your prescription drugs. Now, why am I doing that? Because before all of the favored nations and everythings kick in, which ultimately I think that’s what you’re going to be using more than anything. But Canada gets their drugs for about 50% of what we get them for. Same drug, same exact pill, company, everything, Johnson &amp; Johnson, whatever the company, Ron is going to buy from Canada, and he’s just cut your price in half. Right? Right? When are you starting that Ron? When do you think you’ll start?
[inaudible 00:42:08].
When?
Very soon.
Very soon. So Alex get him approved up. Okay? Whatever you have to do. I think it’s great. Some people say, “Well that doesn’t …” My attitude is, whatever the hell it takes. We have this terrible system that’s taken years and years to rig. Like the ballots. Right? Like the ballots. It’s taken them years and years to rig. So they’re very simple. Go buy from Canada. We get rid of the middleman. We get rid of all of this nonsense. You like that mayor? You like that mayor? Both of you? Pretty great Ron. Do it fast Ron. Do it fast. To care for, I mean you’re not going to believe what’s going to be happening with your numbers. I mean they’re coming down big.
We’re not talking about 1%. I mean I don’t even want to mention it, but last year out of 51 years, this is the first time the prescription drug prices have come down in 51 years. They didn’t come down much. They came down like 1%, which I don’t want to mention in one way. But in another way, it tells you something. First time in 51 years when drug prices come down. But now you’re talking about a 50, 60, 70, and 80% reduction in your prescription drug prices. We got to get it all finished up. Wouldn’t it be terrible if Sleepy Joe took this over, the system that I’ve created? And you people will say, “Man, has he been a great president. Look at what he’s done.”
As an example, transparency starts on January 1st. I said to my people, “You couldn’t start it like in August, back? They said, “Sir, you have to go statutorily here, here, here.” I say, “Yeah, but I’d better win this damn election because, can you imagine, mayor, he’ll be saying, “Boy, I’m getting a lot of credit. What the hell did Trump do? This is unbelievable.” I promise you, they won’t give the credit to us. Will, they, huh? No, but I think we’re not going to have to worry about it. I hope that … get out and vote, vote, vote. To care for our nation’s veterans, I signed into law VA Choice and VA Accountability. Nobody thought that would be possible. Right? Nobody thought that would be possible.
We’ve also invested billions and billions of dollars in research and innovative treatments for Alzheimer’s disease, kidney disease, sickle cell disease, AIDS, cancer, and many other illnesses. I will say this, AIDS will be eradicated in this country now in six years. I started right at the beginning. President Obama should have started, he could have started it two years before, or two and a half years before. They wasted two years. But we started it right at the beginning of the administration, and it was a ten-year program. We’re down to six years. In six years it will be essentially eradicated in our country. Think of that. Who would have thought that? It’s an amazing thing. It should have been started before I got into office. It could have been.
Day after day I’m fighting to defend our seniors from the virus, from Big Pharma, oh they love me, special interests, and from the radical socialist left. American seniors, remind us that we’ve inherited an incredible, extraordinary legacy. You’re the generation that defeated Fascism and triumphed over Communism, sent American astronauts to the moon. You built our country into the greatest and most powerful nation the world has ever known. Frankly, right now it’s more powerful than it ever was. When I took over, we had a depleted military. We have now a military … we have the greatest weapons on Earth. We are the envy of the world.
We have the greatest weapons, the missiles, rockets, tanks, the tankers, the freighters, the boats, the ships, the jet fighters, F-35s, the F-18s, F-16s. Nobody has the equipment that we have in the world. Not even close. Even the hypersonic missiles. You know? Under the Obama Administration, they stole our plans for hypersonic. That’s the super-duper, I call them the super-duper missiles. The ones that go so fast, you can’t even see them, and now we have that. You probably read about it last night. We have the fastest by far in the world.
Now we’re doing a great job, and our seniors and generations of Americans before you, they did not pour out their heart, and soul, and blood, and tears, for this country only now to surrender our freedom, our flag, and our American way of life. You seniors have protected us, and now I as a senior and all of my people, we are protecting you. Your courage, your leadership, your patriotism, and your faith, are an inspiration to us all. With your help we will transcend every obstacle, defeat every threat, and triumph over every single challenge. We will lift our nation to new heights of greatness and glory, and America will emerge stronger, more united, more independent, and more prosperous than ever before. For our nation, for our great seniors, and for our beloved children and grandchildren, the best is yet to come. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
We’re right outside the Oval Office in the Rose Garden, very special place. And it’s an honor to once again, address the Economic Club of New York, as well as the economic clubs of Chicago, Florida, Pittsburgh, Sheboygan, and Washington D.C. I know so many people that are proud members and they’re great people. And it’s a great honor to be with you, especially in this very strange kind of a year with what we have to do communication-wise. To be doing it, really, it’s quite nice. It’s a quite nice way to do it. The choice facing America is simple. It’s the choice between historic prosperity under my pro-American policies, or very crippling poverty and a steep depression under the radical left. And that’s what you’ll have is a depression. I will deliver optimism, opportunity, and growth. They will deliver pessimism, stagnation, decline, and very high taxes. Simply put it’s a choice between a socialist nightmare and the American dream.
Under my leadership, we will have a safe and effective vaccine before the end of the year, we will swiftly defeat the China virus, end the pandemic, bring back our critical supply chains, and lift our economy to unprecedented new heights. If the left gains power they will shut down the economy, close our schools, delay the vaccine, prolong the pandemic, and impose the most extreme policies in the history of our country. Let’s review the record. When I joined you in-person last year, our nation was enjoying the greatest economy in history. There was nothing like it. This was a stark contrast to the prior administration, which delivered the weakest recovery since the Great Depression. It was weak, and it was sad. In my first three years, real income for the typical family increased $6,000, more than five times the gains during the entire previous administration. Think of that. Five times the gains. Income for black Americans grew nine times more under my leadership, than during the eight years before I took office.
Their policies punish American workers, my policies promote American workers. At the end of the last administration, the Congressional Budget Office projected fewer than 2 million jobs would be created in three years. Well, we did a little bit better than that. We created 7 million, and actually it’ll be close to 8 million jobs by the time the final numbers came in. We lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, achieving the largest poverty reduction in modern U.S history. Poverty rates for our African Americans and Hispanic Americans reached record lows. Inequality declined dramatically, a complete reversal of the Obama years. My policies that benefited those who need it the most. The bottom 50% of households saw an astonishing 40% increase in net worth. Wages rose the fastest for blue collar workers, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American. Unemployment all reached their lowest levels ever recorded.
The last administration sold out American workers like never before, and they sold them to donors, special interests, and globalists. And if you take a look, we have probably plenty of them watching right now, and I understand where you’re coming from, but it didn’t work out too well with me. We succeeded by reversing those cruel and heartless betrayals. Instead of rewarding companies for outsourcing jobs, I implemented massive tax cuts and regulation cuts to keep jobs, opportunity, and wealth in America. The tax cuts and the regulation cuts were the biggest ever recorded in the history of our country. Instead of waging war on the American Energy, we unleashed American Energy to make the United States the number one producer of oil and natural gas on earth. Instead of corrupt and horrendous trade deals written by lobbyists and special interests, again, some of you, I negotiated pro-American trade deals based on the principles of fairness and reciprocity. Very important.
I ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. I’ve taken the toughest ever action against China’s chronic trade abuses that we all know so well. I immediately canceled the last administration’s job killing transpacific partnership. And I renegotiated the South Korea deal, which was a disaster. China unleashed the virus onto the world, and only a Trump administration will hold them accountable. And if this administration, if I don’t get elected in a little while, 20 days, China will own the United States. I can tell you that. When the China virus arrived, we launched the largest mobilization since World War II. To defeat the virus I’m breaking through every obstacle, cutting every piece of red tape, and moving heaven and earth. The FDA has been fantastic. They’re approving things in one week that would have taken two years. I’m not interested in making friends in the corrupt media, and it is corrupt. My sole focus is protecting American lives and making lives good for American people.
We’ll beat this virus and we’ll eradicate this pestilence and all of the things that happened to our country, our lives and our planet. Our aggressive and early action saved up to 2 million lives. If you look at the original numbers, it was projected at 2.2 million lives. We’re at 210,000. And one is too many, it should’ve never happened, should have never been allowed to happen by China. Thanks to advances in treatment we pioneered in record time, we’ve reduced the fatality rate 85% since April. And that number is now gone even better. I’m also working to get emergency approval for the powerful antibody treatment I received that has shown extraordinary promise. As you know, a week ago, I wasn’t feeling so hot, and I had a drug, Regeneron, that it made me feel very good, very fast. They call it therapeutic, but I don’t think it was therapeutic. I think it was a cure. For me, it was something that was very good. Now who knows, maybe that would have happened anyway. Maybe I would have recovered beautifully anyway. All I know is once I had Regeneron, it worked out very well.
Under Operation Warp Speed, we’re on track to deliver at least 100 million doses of a vaccine before the end of the year, with hundreds of millions more to quickly follow. Our military will be delivering it. We have the best people on earth in our military, and we will deliver the drug, we will deliver the vaccine rapidly. Unfortunately, the media’s constant efforts to stoke panic and hysteria, and to probably change an election, that’s what they really want to do, have undermined our public health efforts and put innocent lives in danger. They will not have success in changing the election. They tried that four years ago, that didn’t work out too well. Americans should be trusted with the facts, the data, and the truth. For the young and healthy, the risk is exceedingly low. 99.98% of those under the age of 50 survive. The average age of those who succumb to the virus is 78. And usually that is a person who’s 78, but has bad heart, diabetes, has other problems. That’s why we’re so focused on protecting elderly, and higher risk Americans.
Our groundbreaking therapies have significantly improved outcomes for elderly patients. But I will not rest and I will not relent until all American seniors are safe. That is my sacred obligation. I love our seniors. I love our country. At the same time, we must allow lower risk Americans to resume normal activity. The unscientific lockdowns pushed by left wing Politicians are needlessly destroying millions of lives. They decimate livelihoods and lead to suicide, drug, overdose, depression, heart disease, delayed medical treatments, and reduced life expectancy. The cure can not be worse than the problem itself. And that’s what a lot of run by Democrats have done to their people, and it’s turning out very, very bad for them. These lives must be protected as well. The recent months, I have also acted swiftly to rescue the U.S economy with an unprecedented $2.5 trillion in aid. We delivered over $160 million in relief payments for our hardworking Americans through our Paycheck Protection Program that all of you are familiar with.
My administration has approved over $650 billion in forgivable loans to more than 5.2 million small businesses. It’s been a savior. This action has saved and supported 50 million jobs, and we think that number is going to be, when it’s finally put down in actual fact, we think it’s going to be even more than that. We increased unemployment benefits by $600. When Democrats fail to extend this assistance, I provided up to $400 a month in continued relief. I froze student loan payments, stopped evictions, suspended payroll taxes, and delivered $500 billion to save major U.S employers, including airlines. As a result of these decisive actions, the U.S has been both the smallest economic contraction it has seen. Think of that. With all that we’ve done and all the countries out there, some great and not so great, we’ve seen the smallest economic contraction and the fastest recovery of any major Western country. I hope people are taking note of that. And it’s not even close. We’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs since May. That’s another record.
Under the previous administration, it took 30 months to recover more than half the jobs lost in the crisis. We surpassed that milestone in fewer than five months. Just a few months ago, most experts were projecting unemployment well over 10% through the end of 2020. Instead we’ve already cut unemployment below 8%. Something that it took the last administration over three years to do. Jobs have been recovering 23 times faster than the Obama recovery. Remember that. 23 times faster. And I know these numbers must be true because they were given to me by the great Larry Kudlow, who sitting on my left. Consumer spending is almost 10% higher today than before the pandemic, and automobile production has recovered 100%. Home sales are at their highest reading since December, 2006. And home builder sentiment is the highest in recorded history. Think of that. The highest home builder sentiment in recorded history and we’re in a pandemic. And I will tell you we’re rounding that final turn.
If the left gains power, the recovery will be terminated and the economy will be destroyed. They’ve told us their exact plans. Left wing politicians have pledged a $4 trillion tax hike, which will destroy our country. And this will raise taxes on 80% of our taxpayers, cut the child tax credit in half, which is $1000 per child, and punished working families. The highest business tax rate in the developed world would be created, sending millions and millions of jobs out of America, into China and various other countries. They’ll be thrilled if we do what Joe Biden wants to do. But it’s not really him that wants to do it, it’s other people that are at a much higher level than Joe. Reentering the job rec in Paris, climate accord, eliminating fossil fuels, shutting down fracking. All over the country they want to shut down fracking. We are right now energy independent. They want to close up, shut down fracking. And enacting the ridiculous Green New Deal, which will cost 100 trillion dollars, which is more money than this country can make in 100 years if everything went perfectly.
Democrat lawmakers sponsored legislation that would outlaw the private health insurance plans for 180 million Americans. So you have these private plans that people love, they’ve negotiated, they fought for, they went to different companies, all great companies. They have plans that they love. 180 million plans, 180 million people. And you know what happens to them? It’s over. They take it away. The Democrat platform would suspend all immigration enforcement and give free healthcare and mass amnesty to illegal aliens. The problem is our country can’t afford it. And as soon as you announce that, millions and millions of people, despite the wall, which is almost finished and by the way, paid for by Mexico, despite all of these things that we’ve done, millions of people would flood into our country. This would obliterate Medicare and would totally demolish your social security.
Democrats in Washington are also pushing a plan to abolish the suburbs by eliminating single family zoning and linking federal highway grants to a federal takeover of local zoning. Your suburbs will be gone. The American dream will be gone. This plan will devastate the property values of millions of middle-class homeowners, including the majority of African-American Hispanic, American and Asian American households who live in the suburbs. The policies of the left would unleash a lasting economic catastrophe of unimaginable proportions. And I know I’m speaking to some Democrats, and some of you are friends of mine, you will see things happen that will not make you happy. I don’t understand your thinking. I don’t understand how you can be backing such policies, but you’re wrong. I can only assume it’s habit. You’ve been there for a long time and it’s habit. Because they will destroy this country. Our country will go into a depression, the likes of which we have not seen since 1929 and maybe worse. So keep backing them, but you know it’s wrong. And I really do believe it’s only habit, that’s the only reason you can be doing it.
Under my continued leadership, we will continue our V-shaped recovery and launch a record smashing economic boom. We will end the pandemic with a safe and effective vaccine, create 10 million jobs in the first 10 months of 2021, where we’re going to have a phenomenal year, and we will soon be announcing in my opinion, a phenomenal, a phenomenal record setting Third quarter and quickly returned to full employment. I will implement a middle class tax cut, reduce regulations that stifle small businesses. And we’ve already cut regulations more than any president in history, whether it’s four years, eight years or in one case more, I have cut regulations far more than any president in the history of our country. A highway that would take 21 years to get approved, we can get done now in one year. And it may be rejected for safety or environmental reasons, but you’re going to know in one year we brought it down to a level that nobody could even believe. It may get rejected, but it’s going to get rejected fast, but most likely it’ll get built fast.
And we also are expanding opportunities zones, which have been fantastic. We will launch a bold initiative to reassure our medical and pharmaceutical supply chains. As part of this effort, I’ll revive Puerto Rico’s pharmaceutical industry. We will keep taxes low for companies and move jobs to America. And we’ll impose steep tariffs on any company that leaves. They want to leave, they want to make our product and then sell it back after firing everybody, not going to happen. They will be tariffed. We will strip federal contracts from companies that outsource critical industries. We will, and this is just has to do, negotiate more fair and reciprocal trade deals. We want reciprocal deals. If you look at Europe and if you look at what Europe has done to us over many, many years, and we’re bringing it back into balance, but it’s way unbalanced. We protect them militarily and then they take advantage of us on trade with tariffs and non-monetary tariffs, which are worse. We have to put America first, like other countries should put themselves first, but we’re putting America first.
We will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, ending reliance on China once and for all. We will ensure that America remains the world’s number one energy producer. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which goes into effect already on January 1st, and further reduce the cost of prescribe prescription drugs as you probably know. Those of you that are in the drug industry, you’re not a big fan of Donald Trump I can tell you, but I instituted a favored nations clause. So if Germany or another nation is buying the drug for one 20th of what we pay, believe it or not, in some cases you have price discrepancies like that, we go to the lowest price anywhere in the world. We’re the largest purchaser of drugs, we go to the lowest price. So if somebody’s selling a pill for 25 cents and we’re paying $2.50 cents, we go to 25 cents. And the 25 cents will come up a little bit, but your drug prices will be reduced by 50, 60, 70, 80, 90%. That’s the way it is.
We will strongly protect Medicare, social security and patients with pre-existing conditions. And as far as the middleman is concerned, the middleman is out. As far as purchasing drugs from other countries until everything else kicks in, Canada pays 50% what we pay. I’ve given governor’s permission to go to Canada and buy drugs directly from Canada, saving as an example, Ron DeSantis the State of Florida, approximately 50% and more on the purchase of drugs. So they’ll buy the same exact drug from the same exact plant or lab for 50% less. I’ve also outlined a new plan to provide historic prosperity, and this is really so important, to the black community known as the Platinum Plan, creating new wealth, new access to capital and school choice as a civil right for every American family. We need school choice. The Democrats will never give you school choice. They will never give you charter schools that have worked so well.
We’re lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. We’re delivering a future of fairness, justice, and dignity for every community in our land. And we’re defending our values, our principles, and our cherished way of life. And guided by these timeless convictions, we will make next year one of the single greatest years in the history of our country. It’s an honor to be with you. I think I’ll be with you next year again, but we’ll have to see because if I don’t win the election, you probably won’t want me. And that’s okay with me too. But I think we’re going to have a tremendous success. We’re having lines of people, 30, 40, 50,000 people lining up to see a speech with one day notice. And my opponent is getting 22 people with working very hard to get them. So I don’t know. I think we’re going to have a tremendous success. I hope so. But next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country. You’re going to see growth like we haven’t seen before, and it’s an honor to be with you. God bless you all.
I just left Walter Reed Medical Center, and it’s really something very special. The doctors, the nurses, the first responders, and I learned so much about coronavirus. One thing that’s for certain, don’t let it dominate you. Don’t be afraid of it. You’re going to beat it. We have the best medical equipment. We have the best medicines all developed recently, and you’re going to beat it. I went … I didn’t feel so good. And two days ago, I could have left two days ago. Two days ago, I felt great. Like, better than I have in a long time. I said just recently … better than 20 years ago. Don’t let it dominate. Don’t let it take over your lives. Don’t let that happen.
We have the greatest country in the world. We’re going back. We’re going back to work. We’re going to be out front. As your leader, I had to do that. I knew there’s danger to it, but I had to do it. I stood out front. I led. Nobody that’s a leader would not do what I did. And I know there’s a risk. There’s a danger. But that’s okay, and now I’m better. Maybe I’m immune. I don’t know. But don’t let it dominate your lives. Get out there. Be careful. We have the best medicines in the world, and they’re all happened very shortly, and they’re all getting approved. And the vaccines are coming momentarily. Thank you very much. And Walter Reed, what a group of people. Thank you very much.
I want to begin by thanking all of the incredible medical professionals, the doctors, the nurses, everybody at Walter Reed Medical Center, I think it’s the finest in the world, for the incredible job they’ve been doing. I came here, wasn’t feeling so well. I feel much better now. We’re working hard to get me all the way back. I have to be back, because we still have to make America great again. We’ve done an awfully good job of that, but we still have steps to go, and we have to finish that job, and I’ll be back. I think I’ll be back soon, and I look forward to finishing up the campaign the way it was started, and the way we’ve been doing, and the kind of numbers that we’ve been doing. We’ve been so proud of it, but this was something that happened, and it’s happened to millions of people all over the world, and I’m fighting for them. Not just in the US. I’m fighting for them all over the world.
We’re going to beat this coronavirus, or whatever you want to call it, and we’re going to beat it soundly. So many things have happened. If you look at the therapeutics, which I’m taking right now, some of them, and others are coming out soon that are looking like, frankly, they’re miracles, if you want to know the truth. They’re miracles. People criticize me when I say that, but we have things happening that look like they’re miracles coming down from God, so I just want to tell you that I’m starting to feel good. You don’t know over the next period of a few days, I guess that’s the real test, so we’ll be seeing what happens over those next couple of days. I just want to be so thankful for all of the support I’ve seen, whether it’s on television, or reading about it. I most of all appreciate what’s been said by the American people, by almost a bipartisan consensus of American people. It’s a beautiful thing to see, and I very much appreciate it, and I won’t forget it. I promise you that.
I also want to thank the leaders of the world for their condolences, and they know what we’re going through. They know what, as your leader, what I have to go through, but I had no choice, because I just didn’t want to stay in the White House. I was given that alternative. Stay in the White House, lock yourself in. Don’t ever leave. Don’t even go to the Oval Office. Just stay upstairs, and enjoy it. Don’t see people. Don’t talk to people, and just be done with it, and I can’t do that. I had to be out front, and this is America. This is the United States. This is the greatest country in the world. This is the most powerful country in the world. I can’t be locked up in a room upstairs, and totally safe, and just say, “Hey, whatever happens, happens.” I can’t do that.
We have to confront problems. As a leader, you have to confront problems. There’s never been a great leader that would have done that, so that’s where it is. I’m doing well. I want to thank everybody. Our first lady is doing very well. Melania asked me to say something as to the respect that she has for our country, the love that she has for our country, and we’re both doing well. Melania is really handling it very nicely, as you’ve probably read. She’s slightly younger than me, just a little tiny bit, and therefore just … We know the disease. We know the situation with age versus younger people, and Melania is handling it, statistically, like it’s supposed to be handled, and that makes me very happy, and it makes the country very happy, but I’m also doing well, and I think we’re going to have a very good result. Again, over the next few days, we’re going to probably know for sure, so I just want to thank everybody out there, everybody all over the world, specifically the United States. The outpouring of love has been incredible. I will never forget. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Wow.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Thank you very much. Hello, Newport News. I know it well. I know it well. I know it well. You know, my father and I had a couple of little jobs here and they were great. When the ships came in, they were packed. When the ships out, they were stone cold empty. I said, “This is a different kind of a place.” But we loved it, and it’s a great place. And I’m thrilled to be back in the Commonwealth of Virginia with the thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. And I also want to thank the great people of North Carolina. Who’s here from North Carolina? Not bad, it’s a little area there.
39 Days from now, we’re going to win Virginia. We’re going to win North Carolina. We’re going to win four more years in the white house and keep doing what we’ve been doing because it’s never been anything quite like it. This is the most important election in the history of our country. One of the biggest issues for the people of Virginia is your second amendment. And if sleepy Joe Biden wins, your second amendment will be eliminated and your firearms will be confiscated. Whether you like it or not. When asked if a Biden administration was coming after your guns, Biden replied, “Yes.” Fully had to say yes.
He promised to put the gun grabber, Beto O’Rourke … you know Beto, Beto. Remember Beto? He was on the cover of a third rate magazine and he said, “I was born to run for president.” That was the end of his run. That’s what it ended. Anytime they say they were born to do it they got problems. That didn’t work out, it was a steep drop. But he put Beto in charge of his assault on your guns and you know what happened with Beto, Beto went crazy. He wants to take your guns away. Biden vows to impose punishing taxes on gun owners. Outlaw many of the most popular firearms in America, create a national gun registry, and wage the most aggressive war on gun rights in US history.
Biden will disarm law abiding Americans. At the same time, they’ll have riots down your street and that’s just fine. That’s okay. That’s okay, according to the left wing. Only by voting for me can you save your country and can you save your second amendment.
So I was told not to go for Virginia. We did really well last time and I never came, I never did anything, and we did really well. I said, “Why didn’t I go for Virginia?” But it’s traditionally not a Republican state over the last number of decades. And I said, “Why not?” You have a crazy governor and every time I see it, every two weeks he’s trying to take your guns away, right?
And he’ll attack constantly right to life. And you know, he’s so far left, he doesn’t even talk about late term, he talks about after the baby was born. Which is the first time I ever heard of that. You hear late term, but he said and after the baby is born we’ll start talking to mother. In other words, he’s talking about execution of the baby. Execution. You have a governor that thinks he’s Michael Jackson. Remember his wife saved him. Remember he wanted to prove that he was just dressed up like Michael Jackson and that he sometimes thought when he was young that he resembled Michael Jackson. I don’t think so. And you remember he wanted to moonwalk across the stage and his wife said, “No, no, don’t do it, darling. Don’t please, darling.” Nobody moonwalks like Michael. That would have been good, I wish I could have seen that. That would not have been pretty.
So based on your governor and based on the fact that he’s always … every like month you’re fighting for guns. If I’m not here, your second amendment is gone and I’m talking about all over the country. Forget about just Virginia. So I said, “Let’s give Virginia shot.” We’re nearby, right? We’re nearby. I even said, “We’ll bring in the heavy artillery. We’ll bring in our great vice president, Mike Pence.” Did he do a good job?
I’ll tell you what, Kamala, Kamala is no Mike Pence. She’s no Mike Pence. No, he’s great. He’s done a fantastic job. And he’s with you all the way. So I said, “Let’s give it a shot.” And you know, there’s a big difference. I tell you what, there’s never been a bigger difference between candidates or parties, never been. No party that supports, as an example, what he would do to a child after it was born is fit to be even involved in any way in this nation, let alone running this nation. As you know, sleepy Joe Biden endorsed your governor. So that means he endorsed the policy of your governor. That means he endorsed breaking up your second amendment. So it’ll either be totally broken up or it will be wiped out. Essentially it won’t be that much different.
So here we are in Virginia. Like I had nothing to do today. I woke at six in the morning, I read some papers. I read the fake news. And then I was in Florida early in the morning, and then I went to Florida and we did a big round table with the Hispanics. They were great. And then we flew to Atlanta from Florida, Palm Beach. And then we flew … We started off in all different places. We were all … And then we flew, we went to Miami. We started off. But I’ll tell you what, Florida’s great. We’re going to win Florida. We’re way up in Florida. Way up. Way up. Even a poll that gave me … I mean, I’ve never had a good number. ABC/Washington Post poll, it’s a terrible poll, always been bad. I think it got everything wrong four years ago. They said I’m four up or more, but I’m four up in the State of Florida. So anyway, so we went to Miami, went to a beautiful place actually in Miami, you know where that is, right? And we had, I won’t say because then they’ll say I’m advertising if I do [inaudible 00:15:58]. I won’t say. I won’t say the name of the place, but it is beautiful. And then what happened is we went to Atlanta and we … so we left the great Hispanics. We call them the Latinos for Trump. Latino.
Where we are polling at numbers that I guess no Republican has ever polled before. Perhaps Abraham Lincoln, but in those days he wasn’t big into the Hispanic movement. I think Abraham had other things to think about, don’t we think? But I will say this, nobody has done more for many communities, but I always say for the Black community, nobody has done more for the Black community than Donald Trump since Abraham Lincoln. Nobody.
So we flew to Atlanta and we had an unbelievable two hours. And this was with the African American community, the Black community. I always say, “What do you like better? Tell me what you like better.” They say, “Usually the Black community.” And what is the answer, tell me? African American. I don’t want to hear from other people, I want to hear. African American. What do you like better? African American or Black? It’s Black. Yeah, that’s what we hear. I’ll go with whatever you want. That’s your choice. We can use either one. I’ll go with whatever you want.
We had a great two hours, incredible people, Herschel Walker introduced me. Serious, serious guy. We had a lot of champion fighters, a lot of great people. It was an amazing time.
And then we flew to Washington where we had a round table. And then I say, “Well, that’s it for the night, right?” You know, this starts at six in the morning. So I said, “That’s it for the night? Is that it? I’ll go back home to the White House.” No, sir. Well, I wonder what … You’re going to Virginia, sir. Good. That’s good. Thank you, very much. This was like, I asked the question about an hour ago,” where am I going now?” Put me in coach, you ever hear the expression? Just wind me up and put me in coach. I said, “Where are we going tonight?” I said, “Let’s go back to the White House, let’s see our first lady.” And they said, “No, sir, you have a rally scheduled. You have a rally scheduled.” Where is it? In Virginia. I said, “That’s good. How many people?” They said, “A hell of a lot of people. That’s [inaudible 00:18:40].”
Well, I wouldn’t. I’m kidding. I’m kidding. I’m kidding. When you have rallies like this, you don’t forget them. You don’t forget them. Thank you, go ahead. Go ahead. What the hell.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
No, so we’re going to put a heavy play in for Virginia. Seriously, we’re going to put a heavy play in Virginia. And I think we can win this state. Man, that crowd is big. Look at that, it goes way back to the hanger. That is a big crowd. That’s good. You know, I always tell the cameras, “I don’t want to bore people with this,” but I implore them, turn the cameras around and show them the size of this crowd. It Goes back to the building. But they never like doing it because they don’t like including Fox, they don’t like showing big crowds. You know, they don’t like showing big crowds. We left Ohio. We’re way up in Ohio. Way up in Ohio. We’re way up in Georgia. We were in Georgia today though with the governor and the senator, Senator Perdue. And Representative Doug Collins, great guy, Kelly Loeffler, great person, Senator, and Senator Perdue. And I said, “How are we doing?” They said, “You’re winning by a lot in Georgia. You’re winning by a lot.” Of course, if you see these people, they’ll say, “He’s pretty close in Georgia. Too close to call.” And then we have election night comes, the polls in Georgia are close. Donald Trump has won the State of Georgia.” You only win if you’re up by, like a lot. If you’re by a lot, they announce it … That was what happened with Texas last time. They said Texas is too close to call. All for months and months and months. The only one that didn’t believe that were the people in Texas. So when it closed, they said the polls in Texas are closed, Donald Trump has won-
The polls in Texas are closed. Donald Trump has won that state, like in the same breath. Nah, we’re doing great in Texas. We’re doing great all over the place. We’re doing great all over. I hear we’re up in New Hampshire, which is great. Last time that one got taken away from us with the people that just came in with buses all over the place. They had buses coming up from Massachusetts. You have the RINO governor, you know, the RINO governor of Massachusetts, right? Baker. He’s a RINO but I guess he does whatever he can to get elected.
The Democrat party is now run by socialists and Marxists who want to destroy our laws, our values, and want to destroy your way of life. To uphold our Constitution as written, tomorrow I will be announcing my nominee to the United States Supreme Court.
Fill that seat. Fill that seat.
Fill that seat. Oh, we’re going to fill it, don’t worry about it. And the Republicans have been very unified. You see that, very unified. Even a couple of people that normally don’t vote for with us. You know, they usually don’t vote with the Republicans, but they are. And we have tremendous unity in the party. Mitch is doing a good job. Kevin is doing a good job. We’re going to take over the House. We’re going to take back the House. People are tired of craziness. They’re tired.
We want to get some stimulus out. She doesn’t want to give it, only for political reasons. It’s not your fault. Do you know, whose fault it is? China’s fault. That’s whose fault it is. That’s whose fault it is. But you know, it’s an amazing thing because the Democrats are saying, “Well, it’s the end of a term.” You know, we have a lot of time left. Think think of this. If it were them… Don’t forget, we don’t have to do it by the election. But we should be really able. That would be a great victory, going into the election with that biggest of all victories.
You know, they say the biggest thing you can do is the appointment of judges, but especially the appointment of Supreme Court Justices. That’s the single biggest thing a president can do because it sets the tone of the country for 40 years, 50 years. I mean a long time. So we’re going to be announcing somebody great. I just watched, the great thing about Air Force One there are more televisions on that plane than any plane. They got them in every room. You open up for closet. You want a shirt. Let me open, “Oh, there’s a television.”
And I’m watching the Democrats saying how terrible it is that we’re appointing. We have the right. We won the election, right? Then we have the right. We won the election. We have a lot of time, and if they weren’t in opposition, they would do the same thing. Maybe they would just do it more rapidly. Okay? More rapidly. So tomorrow I think is going to be a big day. Five o’clock tomorrow at the White House, we’re going to be naming the nominee, hopefully will be on that court for 50 years. Five-oh, fifty years. Be on there for 50 years. The only thing I can tell you for sure is it will be a woman. Is that okay?
Yay.
Does anybody have any objections to that?
No.
Please raise your hand. A lot of cowards out there. Look at you, men. There’s not one man here that has the guts to raise your hand. Not one. If given the power, the radical left we’ll pack the Supreme Court with extremists who will strike the words “under God” from the pledge of allegiance as they did twice. I heard their pledge of allegiance. They had it in their caucus. I’m watching. I said, “Oh, they made a mistake.” I said to the First Lady, “Darling, they made a mistake. They left the words ‘under God’ out.” And then I heard it a second time and they made the same mistake. I said, “This is strange.”
This is like the guys on the Mueller team. They cleaned their phones, right? 31 phones. And they said, “Oh, we made a mistake.” And they all made the exact same mistake. The odds of that are a billion to one, right? They all made… Oh, they got caught. Did you see what’s going on. Oh, they got caught. Hey, I feel sorry. That’s a shame.
Lock them up.
Yeah. They should be, I’ll tell you. They should be. They’re crooked people. They’re crooked people. So they cleaned up their phones. Hillary took her phones and smashed them. She took 33,000 emails and deleted them after Congress requested them. And I think they’re looking at that too. I think so. I think so.
Can you imagine? I have a friend he’s very smart. Rich guy made a lot of money, but he’s a very streetwise guy. He said, “You know, you’ve been under investigation by these thieves, and they’re smart.” They just weren’t smart when they all use the same exact method to clean their phones. That wasn’t smart. You know, at least put it in a little bit different. 31 different phones. Like what is it? 21 people, 31 phones. But that’s okay. That’s okay. That’s only illegal. But this friend of mine said, “You know, they’ve gone through everything. They’ve gone through your taxes. They’ve gone through your financials. They’ve gone through everything. You have to be the most honest guy in the world.”
And they come up, no collusion. Oh, if they found anything. No, it’s a bad group of people headed by Robert Mueller. Bad group of people. Who wanted the job at the FBI. But he lied to Congress. He said he didn’t say that, but he did. I bet he did. We have all the proof. So he is in the same group you know? But they’re actually in worse shape because at least with Mueller, you can say, he probably didn’t know what the hell he was doing. Sort of like Joe Biden. I figure about the same. Does that make sense? Does anybody under-
How would you like to you’re getting a divorce or something, and you say, “I got to be represented by Bob Mueller.” You think so? You saw his performance in Congress, right? I want to be represented by Bob Mueller. No. The same thing. How can we have Joe Biden representing this country?
Boo.
And he’s on the lid. You know the lid, right? The lid is where they say we’re going to put a lid on it. So I guess it means probably what it’s supposed to. I have no idea. The lid, it’s a lid. But it’s an expression. And every day, early in the morning, they say, “Joe, Joe.” I mean, Joe Biden, sleepy Joe. He’s put a lid on it. Sir, Biden has put a lid on it. What does that mean? That means he’s not working today. This guy takes more days off. You will have to have a president that’s going to work his ass off for this country. We need everything. We need a very energetic president.
They said, “How do you think he’s going to do in the debate?” I think good. He’s been doing it for 47 years. I think he’s going to do good. I think. And one thing we know if he does just okay, just okay, they’re going to say, the fake news, they’re going to say it was the single greatest debate performance in history. It was unbelievable, far better than Winston Churchill in his prime. Winston Churchill was nothing compared to this sleepy Joe.
So you know that. If he finishes the debate, if he finishes, which I think he will. And he might even do well. But if he does well they’re going to say it’s the greatest debate. And they have it already written. They have a couple of scenarios. If he does really poorly, they’re going to say he wasn’t bad. He wasn’t bad. If he does modestly well, like he did against Bernie, they were sort of even. If he does like that, they’ll say it was the greatest performance in history. But with your vote, I will preserve our Constitution and ensure law and order.
Yay.
Joe Biden is weak. He surrendered his party to the flag burners, the rioters, the anti-police anarchists, the radicals. All these guys running around these Democrat-run cities and states, look at it. 10 out of 10. We could fix up Portland so fast. They have to invite us. And I want to be invited into that one. We would fix that like we did Minneapolis. We would fix that up in less than a half an hour. Remember Minneapolis, they were a riot. I mean, the problem is they invited us in about two weeks. By the time they invited, it was a lot of flames behind them. Remember the reporter, he’s standing there. “This is a peaceful protest,” and behind him, you have like blocks. It looked like Berlin during the war, didn’t it? I never saw anything. This is the craziest thing. It’s a peaceful performance.
But what we did, we said it’s a peaceful protest. And we don’t call these rallies anymore because in Dem states like where you have a governor who’s a Democrat, you’re not allowed to go to church and not allowed to go to a restaurant. You’re not allowed to go to your friend’s house. You can’t move from your house unless you’re related to the governor. Then you can do whatever the hell you want. You can’t do anything. You can’t do anything, unless of course it’s a peaceful protest. Okay?
So what we do is we call these peaceful protests, and we’re getting big crowds. 25-30,000. 35,000. There’s more enthusiasm now than there was four years ago because we’ve done a good job, right? There’s more now. Now we have more enthusiasm now than we did. You know, it’s interesting. Don’t forget, four years ago, I did a nice job. I was successful. Had a great television show, The Apprentice. It was great. People got to know me a little bit. I said, “Let me run.”
From the time, the first hour that we came down the escalator, First Lady and I down the escalator, her with a white dress, right? Very famous escalator right now. People go take pictures of the escalator. But we came down the escalator. We were in first place, right? We never went, I never left center stage, right? And that’s based on poll numbers, if you’re the number one poller. And I said, “Look, I want an odd number. I don’t want an even number.” They said, “What are you talking?” I said, “Because that means two people are in center and that’s not fair. So I want an odd number.” We were on center stage.
But we’ve done a good job. What happened is I came. I said I was going to cut your taxes. We gave you the biggest tax decrease in history, right? I said I was going to cut regulations and we were going to have an incredible economy. And regulations were probably even more important than the tax cuts. Okay? You want to know the truth. You ask the business people, the great ones, they will tell you if they had a choice, they’ll take the regulation cuts. And we still have a ways to go with that. But we did that.
We rebuilt your military. We added Space Force. I mean, what we’ve done Is far more, far more. Right to try, how about right to try? I never talked about that. I never talked about that. We knocked out 100% of the ISIS caliphate. Right?
Yay.
We achieved energy independence, and we’ve done it while protecting our very pristine environment, by the way. And earlier this month… Oh, you’re going to be so happy, Virginia and North Carolina. Come on North Carolina, you’re going to be so happy. You’re going to be cheering like crazy, because I think you’ll like this. But about a month ago I signed an order prohibiting offshore drilling on the Florida, Georgia and South Carolina coast, right? Right? And because I happen to like this state a lot, I said, ” What about Virginia? What about North Carolina?” And somebody said, “I don’t know. I don’t know if they like it.” I said, “I think they like it.” So I’m extending the moratorium to North Carolina and Virginia. Okay?
Yay.
And if you want to have oil rigs out there, just let me know. We’ll take it off. I mean, you know I can understand that too. I can understand that too, but I think you want it. So we’re extending it to Virginia. We’re extending it to North Carolina up the coast, and we’re not going to have any problems like can be had. All right? So I think you’ll like that. You don’t like it, you’re going to let me know, I’m going to change it. I can change things very easily.
We built the greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we’re quickly doing it again. So I did all of these things. And in doing all of these things, you said the second time, well now this is actually a much easier campaign in a way. I mean, the only problem is I’ve been tarred with this horrible witch hunt for four years and I didn’t do it.
Boo.
No, think of it. What would my numbers be if I didn’t go through almost four years of a Russian witch hunt that turned out to be just the opposite. They were the ones that were involved with Russia. It was a whole big disinformation campaign. Now what would my numbers be with all that we’ve done, and if you didn’t hear night after night on fake news, CNN and MSDNC, and the New York Times and the Washington Post.
And now it’s turning out, not turning out, it’s done. Because if you look at everything that’s come out over the last few days, it’s we caught them. They’d been caught. They spied on my campaign and they tried for a coup. Can you believe it? In this day and age? And we caught them cold, so what would our numbers be? Our numbers, not mine. What would our numbers be? If every night, every morning, every day they were saying Russia, Russia, Russia. It turned out to be a total hoax. In fact, Biden’s son, it was just revealed two days ago, got three and a half million dollars from the wife of the mayor of Moscow. Think of it.
But really, think about that. What would be? We did all these incredible things with the economy, with everything, and then we got hit with this virus from China. They should never have let it happen. We won’t forget it. And we closed up. We saved millions of lives. Now we’ve opened it. We’re opening to records. But what would our popularity be if every day for almost four years, you didn’t hear any of this bullshit, okay?
Yay.
What would it be? It’s true. It’s true. What would they be with all we’ve done I think they would be very nice. The Democrats would say “Yes, if you’d like we could cancel the election because we have no chance.” But you know what? Hopefully they have no chance anyway. And hopefully you’re going to remember what I just said, because we were unjustly treated, unjustly accused by a bunch of treasonous crooks. They’re a bunch of bad, bad people who got caught. And I think they’ll have to pay a very substantial price.
Yay.
When the plague arrived from China, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April. You know, the question was asked to me, “How well did we do on the pandemic?” And I said, “I give us an A to an A+.” You look at the ventilators. You look at all we’ve done. We did a great job. We helped the governors. The governors are always very thankful. Then sometimes they’ll get in front of a camera. They’ll remember, some of them are Democrats, right? But I said, the only thing we did badly on was public relations because we were working so hard we didn’t think… I think, frankly, they’re not going to cover it well, no matter what. But we did a hell of a job.
And then compare us to Europe, and we did very well. But now that Europe is exploding again, they don’t want to talk about it, and neither do I because I want Europe to heal. I want the whole world to heal. But we’ve done a hell of a job except in public relations, and that’s explaining it to people. On that I give us a D, but we got an A+ in terms of what we’ve done.
Through Operation Warp Speed, we will develop and distribute a vaccine in record time by the end of the year and it could be sooner than that. But we have the greatest labs, the greatest companies of that kind in the world. And they are right there. They are right there. It’s going to be incredible. So it’s going to be a great vaccine. We have Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna. Another one just announced today. These are great, great, great companies.
On November 3rd, Virginia will decide whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity, or whether we allow Joe Biden to kill the recovery, delay the vaccine, impose a $4 trillion tax cycle. That’s what he wants to do. Ban American energy. He wants to ban fracking. How about that? He wants to ban fracking. Then he locks into the nomination. You know, he shouldn’t have gotten it, because if Pocahontas left two days early, Bernie would have won. And we would have had Bernie. I don’t know who I would have been better against. Maybe, who knows? But we would have had radical Bernie. But we’re going to get a lot of Bernie votes like we did last night because his people agree with us on trade, except we’re better at it than he is.
So we’re going to get a lot of the Bernie votes. Boy, Bernie takes a hard shot does he? It is this twice it happened. And he has such a nice attitude, between him. And how about Bloomberg? Bloomberg gets absolutely decimated in the debate, right? Mini Mike, mini Mike. Mini Mike, he gets decimated and in order to get back with the Democrat party, “I’m going to put a hundred million dollars into Florida.” If I were him, I’d just take a pass. He doesn’t have to give us anything. We don’t need his money. Just take a pass. You know? So he wants to buy his way into the Democrats. And so he’s going down to Florida. It’s real.
But unfortunately this time that wasn’t so good, right? He said, “I’m going to pay off all these fines of the prisoners.” There’s only one problem. It’s illegal. Now he’s got himself a problem. Now he’s got himself a bigger problem than he had when Pocahontas beat the hell out of him in the debate. Oh that wasn’t so easy, Mike. Remember she was going point, after point, after point. And he thought she was talking about me. And so did I actually. And then, and then what happened? She said, “And I’m not talking about President Trump. I’m talking about you.” And he went, “Oh my God.” He’s not a good guy. He’s not a good guy. Stupid. To do that, stupid. You have to have some pride. You can’t go… But the way they treated him so badly, you can’t do that.
But they’re going to destroy the suburbs. You know, I keep hearing about suburban women like you, right? Suburban women. Well, I just ended a regulation that would have allowed projects in your… Do you mind having a project next to your house, your beautiful? You live in a beautiful house, right? Happily married, beautiful kids, everything perfect. The American dream, right? Do you mind having a project built next door? Yeah. She said she minds. Do you know who minds? Everybody minds. I just don’t think anybody knows that we did this. I really don’t. I don’t think anybody knows. And they’re going to change the zoning that allows them to build projects in the suburbs.
So the guys came to me. I said, “I want to end that.” They came, “Sir, we’re all set. We’re going to really bring it back.” I said, “No, I didn’t say bring it back. I said I wanted to end it.” “Well, that’s not so easy.” I said, “I want it ended. I don’t want it. I don’t want it.” And we terminated it so you can live happily ever after, if you vote for Trump. If you don’t vote for Trump, you can forget it because they will put… Do you know who’s in charge of it? Cory Booker, Senator Cory Booker. He’s another beauty.
Boo.
Cory Booker, Senator Cory Booker, he’s another beauty. He was Elizabeth… If you really think, you had Elizabeth Warren, you had Cory Booker and you had Kamala. You know if you pronounce her name wrong, she goes crazy. Kamala, like a comma. It’s like a comma. She’s like a comma. And by the way, nobody treated sleepy Joe worse than his vice presidential pick. I brilliantly said, “He’ll never pick Kamala because he got called a racist. He got called xenophobic,” which he didn’t know what that meant. He got called all sorts of things, right? And so I said, “Now, obviously he’s not going to…” He picked her. I couldn’t believe it, but I think that’s good. We like our Mike Pence. We like Mike Pence.
And she’s rated further left than Bernie Sanders. I thought he was the most left in the… He’s not actually even in the party. He’s sort of like an Independent. Nobody ever used to say that, but he’s like an Independent. But she’s rated further left than crazy Bernie, and this is what you want? I don’t think so. Just so you understand… And then she calls it the Harris administration along with… Just like you’re naming a movie, the producing credits, right? “In the Harris administration along with Vice President Biden…” No, no, no. He’s heading up the ticket, but then he said the same thing. He put her name first. I’ve never done that. I love Mike, but I’ve never said, “Mike Pence and Donald Trump.” I always say Trump, because you know what? You got to know that you’re the president. He doesn’t know that he’s in first position. He doesn’t know it. He doesn’t know it. He forgot. He forgot.
Hey, look, you’re entitled to a mistake every once in a while. It was strange that they did it almost in the same hour, though, right? It was like one on top of another. Give free healthcare, they want to give free healthcare to illegal aliens and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in school. We don’t like that. To combat the toxic, and you see what it is, it’s toxic, left-wing propaganda in our schools, I announced last week that we are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called the 1776 Commission. We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and we’re getting better, better, better all the time. And we’re joined tonight by a friend of ours, a warrior, Congressman Rob Wittman. Where’s Rob? Thanks, Rob. Good guy.
Virginia Republican party chair, Rich Anderson. Good job. How are doing? Am I making the right move? I’m not wasting my time here, Rich? I got to ask him. Rich, what do you think? I think so, right? I think so. And congressional candidates, Nick Freitas. Oh, look at him. We had a call the other day, a very successful call, right? Great call. Thanks Nick. And a real warrior, a real hero, Scott Taylor. Scott, great job. Those are two very important races and I think you’re going to win them. I saw some good polling. We’re taking over the House from crazy Nancy. We’re going to have it. And I think those two guys, I think they’re going to win.
Also, somebody that I have heard incredible things about, the Republican nominee for the US Senate, Daniel Gade, Daniel Gade. He’s a good looking guy. [crosstalk 00:46:11] And I’ll tell you, he’s got to beat his opponent because he is just… Warner was, you know he was talking about Russia, right? Trump and Russia, Russia, Russia. Then he gets scammed by a guy with the greatest Russian accent. You remember that, right? “I have pictures of President Trump.” “Oh really? Where, where, where? What are they like? Are they nude pictures?” “Yes, yes, yes.” “Does Vladimir know?” “Yes, yes, yes.” So he’s talking to this guy, he got scammed, okay? It was a comedian or something. It was a comedian, he’s allowed to talk to Russians. If I talk to a Russian, it’s a terrible thing.
By the way, getting along with Russia is not the worst thing in the world. Does that make sense? Getting along with North Korea, Kim Jong-un. Everyone said, “Oh, he’s getting along. He’s giving so much.” I said, “What did he give?” They couldn’t tell me anything. You know what I gave? Sanctions, that’s what I gave. But you know what? We get along. We get along. You would have been in a war right now. It would have been a nuclear war. You would have been a war right now with North Korea if it wasn’t for me. Hillary Clinton didn’t have a clue. Obama didn’t have a clue. Obama told me when I sat with him, the one time I sat with him, “What’s your biggest problem?” “North Korea.” I said, “How big?” He said, “It’s a big problem.” And he was indicating like it was a war. I said, “Have you tried calling him? Have you tried? Have you given it a little shot? Instead of losing 10 million people.”
They used to say, “50,000 people could be killed.” No, 20 million people could be killed, okay? 20 million. Seoul is right near the border. It would be too bad, but we have a good relationship. I get criticized, because have relationships with these people and that’s a positive thing. We have to remember, that’s a positive thing. And I had a very good relationship in China with President Xi, but you know what? This pandemic has just… We made a great trade deal, but it just doesn’t mean the same to me. Does that make any sense? It doesn’t mean the same to me. It doesn’t mean the same to me. Last week, two weeks ago, they had the largest order of corn to our farmers in our history. They had the largest order of soybeans. They had this massive order of beef. But you know what? It just doesn’t mean as much to me now, as it did at one point. The ink wasn’t even dry on the trade deal, and this thing came in and they could have stopped it.
We’re all so deeply moved to be joined by two gold star spouses, two incredible people. Karen Owens was a guest at my first address to Congress, as we honored the supreme sacrifice of her husband, fallen Navy Seal, Ryan Owens. Where is Karen? Where are you? Come on up here, come up. And we’re also joined with Brittany Jacobson, her family. You know Brittany. On Memorial day in 2017, I met Brittany and her son, Christian, at Arlington national cemetery. And we honored the memory of her incredible husband and Christian’s dad, Marine Sergeant Christopher Jacobs. We took a picture together, that little boy, who’s no longer a little boy, Come on over here, come on. Come on over here, the both of you. Come on. [inaudible 00:49:46]. [crosstalk 00:49:42] Thank you very much. I said, “How’s your beautiful, handsome boy?” She said, “Really good, but he wants to go back to school.” Let’s go, open up the schools, open up the schools governor. We’ll get them open.
But we thank God every day for our courageous warriors, and we’ll always support our incredible gold star families. And we want to thank both of you. It’s incredible, thank you. And we’ll get you back to school soon, all right? Get them back. Come on, governor. Let’s go. You got other things to do. These people, they’re keeping this stage close, because they think it’s going to be harmful on November 3rd. And it’s not really, it’s not going to have too much of an impact. What it’s doing is hurting a lot of people though. It’s hurting a lot of people. In everything we do, we are putting America first. We’ve spent the last four years reversing the terrible damage Joe Biden and his friends inflicted on this country over the last 47 years. I love it when he says, “We could have done this. We should have done that.”
That guy’s been here forever. 47 years, hard to believe, right? And that was in primetime. Although, he’d never had super primetime. But that was in primetime, remember? And this time, and now I got him here, [ay ya yai 00:09:41]. Together we’ve taken on a corrupt and broken system, that’s been throwing everything at us from the very beginning. A new trove of documents… And you have to go home, you’ve got to read these documents. And they now prove that Russia interfered in 2016. Unfortunately, it was on behalf of Hillary Clinton, not Trump. They interfered, disinformation. Newly released text messages make 100% clear the FBI knew that Democrats purchased Russian disinformation targeting me, your favorite president, which then formed the basis for the witch hunt. And I’ll tell you, we’ve had some incredible strength in terms of people like Sean Hannity, the great Lou Dobbs. No, think of it. Laura, Tucker. Tucker’s been great the last period of time.
Fox and Friends, Jeanine, Jeanine. I’ll tell you. [Jesse 00:10:49], how about Jesse, huh? Hey, Greg Gutfeld was bad to me. Now, he’s great to me. He said, “Hey, would you rather have a nice guy that doesn’t do anything, or a horrible human being like Trump that gets it done?” They all say, “I’d rather have the horrible human.” I’m not a horrible human. I’m a nicer guy. I always get very offended when they say about like, “Well, maybe people don’t like him, but he gets everything done.” I think people like me, but I do get it done. [inaudible 00:53:17]. Done more than any administration ever, in three and a half years, first three and a half years.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
That’s so nice.
We love Trump. We love Trump.
I’ll tell you, that is so nice. That is so nice. The first is just talking about the seating, we’re going to… Don’t worry about… The justice will get her seat, don’t worry about that. And that’s a nice, that’s nice. But you know they say, these people said, they’ve never heard a political campaign were a big audience says, “We love Trump,” or the candidate. I’ve never heard it. I’ve never heard it. It’s true. I’ve never heard it for Ronald Reagan. And I like Ronald Reagan, but I’ve never heard it. And they’ve never heard it. Nobody’s ever heard it. Who says that? But I love you too, I really do. I do. And we’re getting it done. No, they’ve never heard that chant. I’ve never heard it. And it started about two weeks ago and never heard it even before. But again, before-
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
No, I want to thank you. It’s really nice.
We love Trump. We love Trump.
It’s really nice.
We love Trump.
And we’ve got to go out and we’ve got to really work hard. And we’ve got to watch this ballot scam, because they’re scamming us, okay? They’re scamming us. And then they say, “He doesn’t want to turn over…” Of course, I do, but it’s got to be a fair election. See, that’s another scam. They don’t mention anything about ballots. I say, “Got to be a fair election.” When they’re losing ballots all over the place, when they’re losing ballots that just happened to be Trump ballots. You know, in Virginia, did you hear? In a very Democrat area, they sent two ballots to thousands of people, a thousand or thousands of people. It just came out over the wires. So people in a Democrat area got two ballots instead of one.
They had eight ballots in a wastepaper basket, military ballots, that all were for Trump. Every one was for Trump and they were in a wastepaper basket. They were thrown away and somebody saw them. Then they had many, many ballots thrown into a river, someplace, I don’t even know the state. These are just a few of them. And then go back earlier, go back to the Democrat primaries, go back to the great State, Iowa. I love Iowa. We’re going to win Iowa big, big, big, big. We won it last time by 11 points. We’re going to win it big. With ethanol, what I’ve done for them, with the $28 billion for the farmers. And that includes you, that includes tobacco, that includes a lot of things, but that includes your farmers. But you go back to their primaries, right? Go back to the primary, the Iowa, the first primary, it was done with ballots. They have no idea. Remember the disaster? And that’s a small primary.
Now, they’re talking about tens of millions of these fake ballots going all over the place. Who’s sending them? Where are they being sent? Who’s sending them back? Supposing they don’t get them, are they being sent to Democrat areas? And they’re all run by Democrat governors, right? All of them, 100%. It’s 100%. So you have a guy in Nevada, he just comes up with the idea. I think we’re going to win Nevada. If fairly, we’re going to win it. But he comes up, “Well, you don’t have to have your signature verified.” Oh, that’s nice. That’s good. He decided let’s do that. But you know a real big problem? I like watching television and have, “The winner is…” Right? You might not hear it for months, because this is a mess. Go back and study what happened in Iowa. Take a look, take a look at what happened in New York, in a small congressional race, Carolyn Maloney.
She should have lost the race, in my opinion. They gave it to her, because it was a crooked deal. The guy that she ran against was having fits. He said, “What are you doing? What are you doing?” Everything was mixed up. The ballots were lost. There was fraud. There was everything. Go into Patterson, New Jersey… These are just recently. It’s a disaster waiting to happen. And the only one that knows it better than we do are the Democrats. They know this is going to happen. They want it to happen, because they want to go through a court system. And instead, you’re not going to hear, very unlikely that you’re going to hear a winner that night. I could be leading and then they’ll just keep getting ballots and ballots and ballots and ballots. Because now, they’re saying that the ballots can come in late. Well, what does that mean? And more importantly, they’re going to be given, in some cases, a week or two weeks to count the ballots. So if we’re waiting for one state…
No, think of it. If we’re waiting… And this is, they’re talking about five, six, seven states that have this problem. So if we’re waiting for one state, does that mean the whole nation, the whole world, is going to wait for one state? I won’t use any names, but you have Pennsylvania, where you have a Democrat, who by the way, lost the case last week. We sued. We want him to open up his state and we won, on constitutional grounds. North Carolina, they have the state all locked up. So we’re talking about, these are the governors that run their states for Democrats. They really do. I mean, they run them, they’re Democrat governors, and they’re in charge of the count. We went to Nevada to make a speech. We had five different sites. The governor made it impossible, so we ended up at a different site. We had to get one very… This is the guy that’s in charge of ballots. He was a political hack. Now, he’s the governor. And this guy is in charge of ballots.
It’s not going to work. It’s going to be a disaster. And I want a smooth, beautiful transition, but they don’t add the other part, but it’s got to be an honest vote. And everybody knows, just go back again, look at Iowa, look what happened. Just take a look at that. They still don’t know who won. They didn’t know weeks later. Remember New Hampshire went, New Hampshire, declared a winner. And essentially, they don’t know what happened in Iowa. Except the difference is, we’re doing the same thing, but with tens of millions of ballots. This is a disaster waiting to happen and they shouldn’t let this system go. If you ask for a ballot, it’s called solicited. You solicit. You want the ballot, it comes in, you sign it, you send it back. That’s okay. But where they send millions and millions of unsolicited ballots, people get ballots, they didn’t even know they were getting them. Sign it, sign it. Then they have people going around getting them to sign. When you have that, you don’t need… We have much more enthusiasm. We’re so high up on enthusiasm, right?
But it’s very unfair, because when you have somebody go knock on your door, “Sign,” it’s called harvesting. They’re going to harvest ballots. Even though in some cases, in most cases, it’s illegal. It’s illegal as hell. And it should be illegal. So this is a disaster waiting to happen. And the only hope we have, really, other than going through a long, unbelievable litigation at the end, after it’s over, because we’re going to win. We’re not going to lose this, except if they cheat. That’s the way I look at it. We can’t let them cheat. We can’t let them, it’s too much. Our country is at stake and it’s true. Our country is at stake, because these people will destroy our country. We can’t let this happen. And this is a scam. They know it. The media knows it, but the media doesn’t want to cover it. They know exactly what’s going to happen and so do I, but the Democrats know better than all of us what’s going to happen.
So we can’t let it, and if you see anything, you just have to report it on everything. We’re all watching. Law enforcement’s watching all over the place, but it’s very hard to watch. Millions of ballots, very hard to watch. And that’s the only way we’re going to lose, is if there’s mischief. Mischief, and it’ll have to be on a big scale, so be careful. And we do want a very friendly transition, but we don’t want to be cheated and be stupid and say, “Oh, let’s…” We’ll go and we’ll do a transition and we know that there were thousands and thousands of ballots that made the difference through cheating. We’re not going to stand for it. We’re not going to stand for it. So just remember, keep your eyes open. For decades, our opponents spent trillions of dollars rebuilding other countries and now we’re finally rebuilding our country. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, all made in the USA. We launched the first new branch of the Armed Forces, think of that, since the Air Force, 75 years ago. It’s called Space Force and it’s a big deal. See, that alone would be a big deal for… Honestly, that alone would be a very big deal for an administration. We did… Think of it. We now have a 6th branch of the United States Armed Forces. That’s a big deal. But we did so much more, so much more. I mean, think of it. It’s incredible. You know what we did, probably the most? We’ll have maybe even more than 300 federal judges, including court of appeals. And now we’re going to have three Supreme Court judges. Their minds are blowing, their mind. You’ve had many presidents, never had one Supreme court judge…
You’ve had many presidents never had one Supreme Court judge. We’re going to have three. Of all people! And that’s a record. Of all people to get three Supreme Court justices in one administration, in one term, they are going crazy. They’re saying, “Darling, tell me this is not happening.” But you’ll see it tomorrow at 5:00. With the help of the incredible workers of Newport News and Norfolk Naval Shipyard, we will build 355. We’re going to have a Navy again, of 355 ships. That’s what we need. That’s been depleted. And they’re already being built. We’ve got a few big ones, beauties being built, including aircraft carriers.
Biden will slash military funding, and shipbuilding will be shut down. It’s going to be shut down like it used to be. We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s number one terrorist and mass murderer, Soleimani. I withdrew from last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear catastrophe. What a deal that was. $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. You ever see what 1.8 billion in cash? It’s plane loads. These guys over there, they must’ve said, “What the hell is this?” They never saw money like that. We paid it. You know what we got for it? Nothing. Nothing.
I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’d been working on that for 52 years. I got it done quickly. And instead of endless wars, we are forging peace in the middle East. We even got nominated, right? You know what for? That’s all right. I hate to talk about it, but I have to because the press doesn’t talk about it. No, it was a great honor. It was a great honor. Twice. You know that, right? Twice? The press doesn’t talk about it. The Nobel Peace Prize, huh? Two for different things. For Kosovo and Serbia. We stopped them from killing each other. It was very nice, and they don’t have to kill each other. Been killing each other for a long time. Kosovo, Serbia. It was great. It was great. And we got a nomination for Israel, and you look at Bahrain, UAE. That’s just the beginning. We have them lined up that want to go into that. Well, peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand.
And I told you. You heard the story. I went home. I said, “First Lady, I’m going to get the greatest stories tonight. I just got nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, First Lady.” The Israel, everybody said it couldn’t be done. And they were right. It couldn’t be done the way they were doing it. You would have never gotten it done. The way John Kerry was doing it, you would have never gotten it done. That’s a guy that doesn’t have a clue, incompetent. But you know what? I said, “First Lady, wait till you see this. It’s going to be unbelievable.” And we watched Lester Holt. I don’t even know why. And we had one story after another after another, and after seven stories, I said, “First Lady, this is getting a little embarrassing.” And they never mentioned it, nor did any other of the newscasts. Fake CNN didn’t mention it. MSDNC didn’t mention it. ABC, CBS. Nobody mentioned it. So I was very embarrassed.
Three days later, I got nominated again. And I said, “My great First Lady, we got another shot at it, darling. Let’s watch the news tonight.” One story, two stories, three stories, four stories, five stories. We got to the end. It wasn’t mentioned again. And when Barack Hussein Obama was nominated, it was. And he didn’t know what he got it for. He still doesn’t. He doesn’t know what he got it for. So we have a little double standard going on, but that’s okay. As long as we know. Sometimes I’ll be talking that way and I’ll look around, I’ll say, “Oh, I’m in the Oval Office. Ha, ha. How did that happen?” I said, “You know, with all the complaining, we’re in the Oval Office, and they’re not, right?” And if you don’t mind, let’s keep it that way, so we can keep this going.
We’ve achieved more in 47 months than Joe Biden has achieved in 47 years. It’s true. Biden, without even knowing it, is pushing the most far left platform in history. The Biden plan would destroy Social Security and destroy protection for people with pre-existing conditions. He would terminate our travel bans on jihadist regions. You know, I got the travel ban. Remember? Everyone said you couldn’t do that. I want a travel ban from people that want to blow up our country. Do you think that’s okay?
People said, “Oh, we don’t like that.” Took a little heat, and we got it. They said I didn’t get it. And they were right. We lost at one court, lost at the second, and then we won in the Supreme Court. They don’t say that. But we have a strong travel ban, and we will use it. We do use it. We use it plenty. And increase refugee admissions. They want to increase refugee admissions 700%, opening the flood gates for radical Islamic terrorism. They want to ban school choice and charter schools. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. Every parent. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. It’s so true. And in conclusion, I love you people, but I’ve been doing this since early in the morning. I’m getting the hell out of here. I would only do this for Virginia. I got a guy, he stays in his damn basement all day long, and I’m doing this. I don’t know, if he wins, I’m going to be very embarrassed. I’ll say, “Gee, I worked so hard, and he didn’t work at all.” Nah, we’re going to win. I think we’re going to win, and I think we’re going to win big. I think we’re going to. I think we’re going to win bigger than anyone understands.
I think there’s a vote out there, there’s a hidden vote out there. The pollsters are fake. They’re controlled by the same people that write the bad stories, the fake stories. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. Ban them.
We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms, Virginia. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of the ridiculous, horrible, endless foreign wars, countries that you’ve never even heard of. We will keep you out of them. And by the way, we have weapons the likes of which nobody has ever seen before. We have a level of, a degree of which nobody, from Russia to China to North Korea, nobody’s ever seen what we’ve built, and just hope to God we never have to use them. But we have never had anything like the arsenal that we’ve built over the last three years. Hope to God, we never have to use them.
We’re the envy of the world in that way. We have the greatest people for building this. Nobody can do what we can do. There’s nobody. But when I came in, your military was totally depleted. You had old planes. You had old everything. We have, now, the F-35s, and we have things, the bombers, the new bombers, the tankers, the ships that we’re building, some right here, Newport News. Yeah. But we have built an arsenal, the likes of which the world has never seen. And you know what? That will make it a lot easier for us not to have to use them. That’s really what we need. We needed it. We were in bad shape. We were in bad shape. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And that’s what we’ve done.
We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, and further reduce health insurance. You know the health insurance is a disaster. And we are bringing the price of health insurance way down. Premiums and costs of prescription drugs, we’re instituting favored nations. We pay the highest in the world for drugs. I negotiated with big pharma, and I just got tired of negotiating. I said, “I’m sorry. We’re instituting favored nations. We’re the largest purchaser of prescription drugs by far in the world.” And I instituted what we call a favored nations clause, where we will pay the same price as the nation that pays the lowest price in the world. In addition to that, I instituted a rebate clause, where we get the rebates instead of the middlemen. These are the richest people. I don’t know who the hell they are, but the middlemen are very rich, and they’re not liking me too much, and you’re going to see a lot of bad ads from big pharma. They’ve already started. Just remember every time you see one of those ads, that means your drug prices are coming way down. And I mean by 50, 60, 70, and 80%.
We’ll strongly protect Medicare and Social Security. We will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. Always. Always. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We’re happening quickly. And we’ve taken NASA from fairways … I mean, you have to see. They had fairways along like a golf course. It was a better golf course than it was a runway. And what we’ve done, we’ve taken all the grass out. It was grass blowing right through the cracks. It was a disgrace. And we’ve now made it the number one space center in the world by far, again. You ought to see this. They were playing golf. They were playing golf. It was all closed up, or essentially closed up. It was actually worse than closed up. You know what? It was sort of open, but nobody was doing anything. They had nothing to do.
We have the greatest scientists in the world, and we’re letting rich guys send up rockets. We like it. Somehow, rich people like to send rockets up. We say, just pay us a nice rent and have a lot of fun sending your rockets up. But NASA is now number one in the world, again, by far, and there’s no contest. And all that grass is gone.
We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. Are you listening, NFL? Are you listening, NFL? And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God We Trust.”
For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Virginia and North Carolina. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote. There’s never been a more important election than this election. Early voting has already begun. Do not wait. Go out and vote. From Richmond to Roanoke, from Fredericksburg to Williamsburg, and from Norfolk to right here in Newport News, we stand on the shoulders of Virginia patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. Virginia is the place that gave us George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, James Monroe. Now, you know, I signed a little document, 10 years in prison if you knock down a statue or a monument.
It’s amazing how you haven’t seen any of that lately. They were having a little fun, and now they were heading toward the Jefferson Memorial. I said, “Wait a minute.” And I predicted that. They were knocking down statues. A lot of people didn’t know exactly which one. I said, “You better stop it because the next thing you know, they’ll knock down the statue of Robert E. Lee. And they did.” I said, “You better stop it, or they’ll be going after Thomas Jefferson and Washington and Abe Lincoln.” And they started.
And I said, “What are we going to do here? I have some good people.” They said, because today in Congress you can’t get anything done. They’d give you one day in a very nice hotel. So I said, “What are we going to do?” They said, “We’ll take out an old law, and you can re-institute it with an executive order.” I said, “What does it say?” 10 years in prison, not jail. They used the word prison. I said, “For what?” You knock down a monument or a statue, you go to jail for 10 years. I said, “Give me that, then get it to my office.” And I signed it, and they were coming down to Washington. They were going to knock down two particular statutes that were really beautiful. And I signed it, and we announced it, had a news conference, got to let people know about it. Right? And the 20,000 person march turned out to be about three people, and two of them were arrested, actually, because we have … Thanks to the fake news, we have a lot of footage of people standing on the statue of Jackson, Andrew Jackson.
Remember? They almost had the ropes. We sent in the police. The police did a great job, by the way. Remember that? The ropes, they’re ready to pull it down. And we said charge. And they charged. And I want to tell you, they did a hell of a job. They were much tougher than the people with the ropes. It took them about two minutes, and that was the end of the ropes. But it was close. They got there just in time. But you know what? Since I signed that, there’s been no statues, no monuments that have been played with. Federal, federal. States have to do the same thing for their states. Virginia heroes made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. Going to win, win, win. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of Virginia and North Carolina, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Virginia. Thank you. Get out and vote. Thank you.
… that this guy could be president of the United States in 1985 because he loved America. But I guarantee you, you can’t find that in the archives today. But I’ve always known that he’s different because he became the 45th president of the United States of America. And I also get upset because he don’t get the credit he deserves for all the things that he’s done in the African-American community like the historical Black colleges that helped to build great Black leaders in the world today. And also the prison reform that benefit most of the African American. So I get upset about that.
But his administration and himself work extremely hard to do many things for American, not just African Americans. And I said once, when you give a man a job, you give him self worth. And do you know this president, in three and a half years, put one million African-Americans to work? In eight years, the Obama Biden put 140,000 people to work. I’ve always said I will stand shoulder to shoulder with this man because he keeps God in the house. And all us Americans have received so many touchdown passes from this man that I want to say it is time for us to recognize our quarterback. So it’s my honor and pleasure to introduce my friend, the president of the United States of America, the 45th president, Donald J. Trump.
( singing).
Thank you very much. And thank you to Herschel. I don’t know about Herschel.
[inaudible 00:24:10].
I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t know about Herschel. I’d watch him in college, I’d watch him carry that ball, but I think he’d do just as well as a senator or a governor. We’re going to have to start talking to him about that. He’s a fantastic person, great man. I’m honored to be back in the heart of Georgia with the truly incredible organization, Black Voices for Trump. And we appreciate it.
In 39 days, we’re going to win four more years in the White House. And we will do it with a record number of votes from the Black community, we have no doubt. That’s all happening. That’s all happening. We’re getting a lot of the people back there, they’re saying, “What’s going on over here?” They’re not happy about it, but that’s okay. Our movement is welcoming millions of Black Americans back to the Republican party, the party of Frederick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln. Right? When I ran for president four years ago, I looked at the dismal and shameful record of the Democrat party. And as Black Americans, what the hell do you have to lose? Right? And they all said, “You shouldn’t use the word hell.” But I said, “It’s just, it’s more descriptive. Doesn’t work as well without it.”
Today, I want to share what you have to gain from voting Republican on November 3rd. It’ll be the biggest election of our lives. For decades, Democrat politicians like Joe Biden have taken Black voters for granted. They made you big promises before every election. And then the moment they got to Washington, they abandoned you and they sold you out. The Democrat party used you and they lied to you every single time. You know it better than anybody else knows it. The Democrats will always take back the vote. What they want to do is they’ll take that vote back, they want to take the Black voter for granted, and they have taken the Black voter for granted. And it’s not fair, it’s not right, and it’s not going to happen because we’re going to have such a victory like you’ve never had before.
Thank you. Thank you. In 2016, I made you a solemn pledge that whether you voted for me or not, I would be your greatest champion. Since that time, I’ve delivered even more than I promised. It’s one of those things. Few politicians do that. But I believe we have. Before the China virus, we built the greatest economy for African-Americans in the history of our country. And we are doing it again. In the first three years, we achieved the lowest Black unemployment rate in history. The Black youth unemployment rate reached an all time low. We achieved the largest job gains for African-Americans on record. Black Americans saw the largest increase in home ownership. The poverty rate for African-Americans reached the lowest level ever recorded. And last year, 811,000 African-Americans were lifted out of poverty, the most in over 51 years. In my first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in the history of our country.
I did more for the Black community in 47 months … I saw they used that line, so I don’t want to ruin it by saying it a second time. It was in the video, but I will say it again. Than Joe Biden did in 47 years. And I’m here today to announce a brand new plan to deliver more opportunity, more security, more fairness, and more prosperity to Black communities. We call it the Platinum Plan. Platinum Plan. And that’s a contract with Black Americans, and it’s going to be something that people talk about for a long time to come. If you vote Republican over the next four years, we will create three million new jobs for the Black community, open 500,000 new Black owned businesses, increase access to capital in Black communities by $500 billion. This includes investing in community development, financial institutions, and minority depository institutions. Build up peaceful and safer urban neighborhoods with the highest standards of, and you know this, of policing. We want the highest standards. We have to have highest standards of policing. Bring even greater fairness to the justice system. We did criminal justice reform. We remember that. Even greater.
We will create a national clemency project to right wrongful prosecutions and to pardon individuals who have reformed their life. You saw Alice, right? We love Alice. She had another 24 years to go. Can you believe it? She served 22 years, she had another 24 years to go. It was ridiculous. And she’s a great woman. Create a ladder of opportunity for African-American children by delivering school choice to every parent in America. So important. Give Black churches the ability to compete for federal resources for their communities. Bring better and tailored healthcare to address the historic disparities that we’ve had for so many years. You know that. This includes investing in treatments for kidney disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, sickle cell disease, and maternal mortality. Advanced home ownership and wealth building in the Black community. Bring more manufacturing back to the USA, which we’re doing anyway. And back to the inner cities, which have been largely forgotten, although not so much in the last three years when you get right down to it.
Thank you. End Democrat policies that import low wage foreign workers from overseas to replace Black workers in our inner cities. Joe Biden cares more about the citizens of foreign countries than he does about Black Americans living in our own country. I will always put Americans first. And that includes, very, very importantly, Black Americans. And there’s much more in our plan, which we’re releasing today. So we’ll get everyone a copy, and it’s actually been very well received. And we appreciate that. The Platinum Plan is a bold vision that we can and really will achieve over the next four years that we’ll be able to do it. If not sooner. Unlike my opponent, I’m not a career politician, thank goodness. I get results and I keep my promise. And you’ve seen that. You’ve seen that.
Together, we will not only build up America’s Black communities, we’ll help with your vote with the Platinum Plan. We’ll lift up all forgotten communities, and we’ll strengthen our entire nation. And we are going to have an incredible four years. But more importantly, we’re going to have an incredible 40 years. We’re going to have many, many great years because we’re setting a foundation for the future. So when I’m not here, you’re going to be here forever. Especially look at these young people over here. You’re going to really be there for a long time. But we want this for long term. This year, the Republican party has 26 Black Republicans running for Congress. Where are they? Are they here? Are they here? A lot of them are here, right? Whoa. That’s a good looking group of people. And you’re doing well just about in every instance. Well, we’re going to help you to do even better. We’ll be helping you, you watch. And we’re thrilled to be joined today by eight of them. Raise your hand. Which are the eight? Oh, that’s so great. Yeah. They have what it takes. That’s fantastic. Great job.
One of them I’ve endorsed very strongly. I saw an ad that I liked. I said, “I thought it was great.” Raise your hand please. They’ve been now endorsed, I will tell you. And congratulations, by the way. It’s going to be a fantastic night, November 3rd. Now, I don’t know. With this ballot situation, you’re not going to see it November 3rd. The Democrats are playing games. You see they found ballots in a wastepaper basket? They found ballots dumped in a stream. Take a look at Iowa, the primaries. You remember the primary? They went to Iowa. We love Iowa, but they tried this ballot concept and they still don’t know who won. That was a long time ago. That was in that primary, the first primary. And it’s a very terrible thing that’s happening. Very, very terrible thing.
But you’re going to be raising the hand, if not November 3rd, hopefully shortly thereafter. And I know you’re going to be raising your hand with me. We may end up in a dispute for a long time because that’s the way they want it, but we’re going to end up winning. That’s for sure. Okay? We’re going to end up winning.
When I give my State of the Union address next year, I look forward to welcoming a historic number of Black Republican members of Congress. And we’re going to take back the House. We’re going to take back the House. We’ve already won some seats back. They don’t like to talk about that. The fake news, you’ll find out about the fake news. Have you figured out the fake news yet? You’re young and handsome and beautiful. Have you figured out the fake news yet? You’ll learn. You’ll learn. You’ll learn to live with it. You’ll learn to do what you have to do. But we are going to take back the House. I think we’re only 17 short now. We picked up a couple.
We just won a big one in Los Angeles we haven’t won in 22 years, California. Won a big one in Wisconsin, it was a great one. We won some really good ones. So we’re inching up. And you watch what’s going to happen. It’s going to be a very big night for the House. It’s got to be a really … Retire Pelosi. That’s not a bad idea. That’s going to be great. Congratulations, all. That’s already a great achievement. It really is. It’s already. But together, we’ll fulfill our contract with Black America and we’ll pass the Platinum Plan into law, and we’ll do it quickly and easily.
We’re also joined by a great friend of mine, Dr. Ben Carson. Where’s Ben? Where’s Ben? Ben. I love Ben. Special man. He’s doing a great job too. He’s been my friend from the beginning. Can I tell the one story, Ben? He came up to me, he was campaigning. He was the toughest. I tell you what, we had some really tough ones. A lot of them like to try and say they were tough, but they weren’t, like Kasich. Like Kasich. He only had one thing. He wouldn’t leave the race. He’d get minus one, he’s going on to the next one.
This guy did great. He was incredible. And he came up to me during the race and he was doing well, he said, “You know that you’re going to win, don’t you?” I said, “Excuse me.” He said, “You know you’re going to win.” He was doing great. And he was really in second and third and fourth and back to second. I mean, he was right up there. He was great. I learned, I said, “We got to get this guy out of here.” But he came up to me, he did. And he said, “You’re going to win.” And I’ll let him tell you the rest of the story if he’d like to do it sometime. But he gave a very specific reason. And I will never forget what he said. But he said, “You know you’re going to win, don’t you?” And I just thought it was really nice. And you know what I’m talking about, Ben. So Ben Carson, what a job he’s done too. Respected by everybody. Thank you, Ben. And a man who ran in the primary, who I got a call from another great man, David Perdue. He said, “Could you do us a favor? There’s a guy named Brian Kemp and he’s running in a tough primary, he’s got a tough opponent. And do you think you could maybe endorse him?” I love David Perdue. I said, “Who is he? I don’t know him. Okay?” And then he said, ” Well, he’s been for you.” I said, “Well, I’ve heard that before. I better be careful.” And we did a little … Where’s Brian? Where’s Brian? Right over here. Brian. We did a little research. We did a little research. And he has, he was for me all the way. And I said, “That’s good.” The worst thing is when you’re endorsing people that say bad things, right? He only said good. And I got to know him. And I got to know his wife, Marty. And I said, “Absolutely.” And we endorsed him and he won that primary so easily. He won so easily. And they’re still trying to figure out what happened in the race. I’ve been watching. You know what? It wasn’t that close. He won by a lot, actually. He didn’t win by 15 votes. He won by a lot. How many votes was that? That was a lot. Well, we won’t call it a landslide, but it wasn’t very close. You know? How many votes was that, Brian? It was a lot. 51. To me, you know what that is? It’s Yankee Stadium for a World Series. People would say, “Oh, that was tight.” I heard I won Michigan by 12,000. I said, “That’s an almost full Madison Square Garden. Not quite full.” But that’s Yankee Stadium for the World Series. I think that’s a lot. We look at it differently.
But I do want to introduce also David Perdue, who he is really an incredible guy. He loves everybody in this room. Where’s David? David. Please stand up. Is that right? Did you make that call? You made that call. He made that call. And that was a good call because your governor’s doing a great job and David’s doing a great job. And I hope you can support David and Brian and all of them. They’re incredible people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, David, for everything. Thanks also to Oklahoma’s first Black Speaker of the House, T.W. Shannon. Where’s T.W.? I like that. I want to do that. I want to do that. Thank you, T.W. Great reputation. Thank you very much. And a friend of mine who my children, you know, they’ll always be children. They may be a little older than children, but they’re always my children. They love her, Lynne Patton. Lynne, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Lynne. Thank you.
And if you’re a UFC fan, anybody like UFC? I’ll tell you what. That’s right. Usman. He goes Usman. I know who he is. He’s tough, that’s who he is. Kamaru Usman, where is our champ? Come on, champ. Get up. Man, oh man, oh man. What a fighter you are. I don’t want to mess with him. I may weigh a couple of pounds more. Do you think I could take you to fight you? I don’t think so. He goes, “No.” I think you’re right, champ. But I watched a fight you had a couple of months ago, unbelievable talent. But right up here too, it’s a combination. The muscles are important, but you got to have the other. He actually looks very good in a suit, but he’s one of the few people that look better without a suit. There aren’t too many of us. Hey, there aren’t too many of us that can say that. Right? Right, men? The men in this audience, huh? But I just want to thank you, champion. Good luck. I’ll be watching you. You have a big fight coming up and I’ll be watching, and it’s a great group of people. Great group of champions. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Another great fighter, Ali Abdelaziz, who is tough. Where is he? There he is. Oh, you’re tough. You’re so tough, the two of you guys. I’d like to see you both fight, but there’s a little weight difference, I guess. Right? You probably think you can take him, right? But what is the difference in weight? What is it? 20? 10? I know, I know.
… 20, 10. I know. I know. I know. What is it though because… and were you a fighter at one time? You’re pretty good? Not good as him. Nobody else is either. So that’s easy. You were a good fighter. Also, Atlanta’s top hip hop producer, Polow. Where is he? Where is he? Da Don. Don King used to call me the don, right? He still does actually. but you didn’t get it from Don King I know that, right? Nice to see you. Great to have you. Great to have you. Thank you very much. Do we have another UFC fighter here because I have heard, yes? Because I know we had somebody else. I just don’t want to skip in case we do. I have a lot of respect for them. Anybody gets in a ring and does that and comes out winning, to me, I have a lot of respect. And when you become the champ, I want to tell you, that’s a hell of a thing. That’s what you live for, the belt, right? The money or the belt? You know what? If you get the belt, the money comes, right? So great. Great going champ. Fantastic. Over the last 50 years, Black Americans have mostly voted Democrat, but everyday more Black Americans are deciding that the old way is not working. Five decades of evidence proved that Democrat politicians do not care about the black community. They only care about power for themselves, whatever that means. My opponent is offering Black Americans nothing but the same old tired, empty slogans. By the way, he’s staying in again today. The guy. Hey champ, if I lose to a guy that… that’s like you losing to a fighter that hasn’t worked out in the last six months. This guy never goes out. It’s terrible. Oh, you better make sure I win. I’m going to be very embarrassed. I lost to a guy that didn’t campaign. You know why he’s not campaigning? I guess it’s an energy factor.
So what the hell is going… if I lose to a man that doesn’t campaign. Every day he announced we’re going to stay in today. I don’t know. Hey, I can’t tell you, but the Democrats are angry at him. They say, “You can’t do that.” I just left Florida and from here I’m going to Washington then I’m going to Virginia, then I’m going to someplace else and someplace else. By the way, I see Kelly and I see Collins back there. Will you please stand up? Please. Those are two champions. So they had their names in there, but they took them out. You know why? Because they probably want to not mention them together. They’re going to end up liking each other, you watch. And they you’re great people. I’m not going to skip them over. They go to be a diplomatic. That’s that diplomatic, that’s stupid, right? But I stand here to offer solutions. I want to congratulate you both. Really fighting a good fight. I want to say that both of you, Doug, Kelly. Really great. Well, I sort of like it. You know why?
They’re going to be in there fighting, fighting, fighting. Don’t anybody get out. And everybody’s going to come with them. And the only thing I know for sure, they’re all going to vote for me. Both of [inaudible 00:45:30] So Brian, don’t let them get out. Don’t let anybody get out. But everyone’s going for both of them. It’s got to be, hey, we don’t have long to go either. We don’t have a long time ago. November 3rd. I’ve spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted on the black community over 47 years. 47 years. He always says, “Oh, I should have done this. I should…” I said you’ve been there for 47 years. It’s always great when they tell you what you should be doing and they haven’t done it themselves. And it’s not like it was 25 years ago that he left. He was there three and a half years ago, right? So it’s one of those things. No one in Washington politics today has done more to hurt Black Americans than Joe Biden. Its true.
For half a century, Joe’s personally advocated or enacted virtually every policy that has caused pain and suffering in the black community. You know that. Joe Biden shipped millions of your best jobs overseas, hollowed out the black middle-class and with open borders, trapped children in failing government schools. Sent young men to fight in endless wars. They just never ended. They’re coming back home. You see that. They’re coming back home. Many are already back. While our inner cities crumbled at home and made cities less safe and less secure. Joe Biden should not be demanding your support, he should be begging for your forgiveness. He really should be. He should be. My opponent drafted the 1994 disaster, the 1994 crime bill which caused unfair sentencing disparities that devastated black families. And I mean just… I have heard more about the 1994 and when we did criminal justice reform, it was largely about erasing that terrible act. That was his deal. I rolled back the unfair provisions of the 1994 Biden crime bill. And I signed it into groundbreaking criminal justice reform, which people are so happy about.
Even my enemies are saying, thank you for that. Today, we’re glad to be joined by the first person to be released under thee First Step Act who I was honored to have as my guest at the State of the Union. A really wonderful man, Matthew Charles. Where’s Matthew? Where is Mathew? Where is Matthew? What a good man. What a smile. I looked at that smile from the podium downstairs. I was surrounded by all those killer politicians. And I looked at Matthew’s and nicest looking guy in that house. Thank you, Matthew. You’re doing well, Matthew, right? That’s great, Matthew. You deserve what you got. You deserve it. Biden supported the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization which eliminated one in four manufacturing jobs held by Black Americans. You know that.
Joe Biden’s globalist agenda closed down factories in Baltimore and sent them… just see what happened to all these factories, all these jobs, all of these factories, sent them to Beijing. He shuttered the plants in Michigan and he sent them to Mexico. I replaced NAFTA. One of the worst trade deals, one of the worst stupidest deals I’ve ever seen in my life with the new US-Mexico-Canada agreement, creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs. That was one they said could not be done, David. Right? They said it couldn’t be done. David Perdue. They said that one couldn’t be done, right, David? And we got it done in pretty quick time too. To revitalize neglected communities, we created nearly 9,000 opportunities zones with Tim Scott of South Carolina. You know Tim Scott. Tim Scott is great.
Senator Tim Scott from South Carolina came to my office, came to the Oval Office and he had this idea. And I said, “That sounds good.” And we got it done. And people were surprised that we could even get it done. And it has turned out to be incredible. $75 billion dollars of investment have poured into these neighborhoods, which will create an estimated 500,000 jobs and lift 1 million Americans out of poverty. When the China virus struck, we raced to ensure that Black Americans had the medical care and the financial support that they needed through the Paycheck Protection Program, which was a big deal. We helped save over 200,000 black owned, small businesses. A lot of small businesses. It’s incredible. The black community has tremendous talent in terms of those businesses and small businesses. We saved at least 200, 000 of them. As we continue to battle the virus, my administration is sheltering those at highest risk while rapidly developing treatments. And the vaccine is coming very quickly.
I see where a couple of the Democrats don’t want to have the vaccine because they said, “Well, we don’t want it because we think Trump is pushing it too fast.” Well, that’s the reason we’re going to have it. This would have taken years to get. We’re years ahead of schedule. And this would have been two, three years by Democrats. But now they’re very concerned because they’re afraid it’s happening too fast and that means we’re going to get credit. I don’t want credit. We want to save lives. We will crush the virus, our opponents will crush the black middle-class. That’s what they’ve been doing. And they’ve been doing it for a long time. For too long. They will deliver a crippling shutdown and a very steep depression. If he gets elected, this guy, you will have the greatest depression that this country has ever seen. And that includes a pretty big one in 1929. Hello. How are you? Great. I love her dress. That’s great. Thank you for being here. I didn’t know you were going to be here. Thank you very much.
Nearly 1.3 million African-Americans have gotten jobs in the last four months alone. And next year I think it’ll be, economically, the greatest year in the history of our country. And that’s good for everyone. That’s good for everybody, right? Especially for these young geniuses, these young political geniuses that are coming along. But I think we’re going to have the greatest year in the history of our country economically. And I think our third quarter, which happens to be… it’s going to be announced two days before… the numbers come out two days before the election, right at the beginning of November. And I mean, I’ll say it now. These people, all those people up there, they’ll hold me to it. They won’t give me credit if I was right but if I was wrong, it’ll be headlines. We have breaking news. Trump said wrong. But I think we’re going to have a tremendous third quarter. After years of rebuilding other countries, we’re finally rebuilding our country. The path to the American dream has always been education. Republicans believe that school choice is the civil rights issue of our time. And Joe Biden isn’t allowed to go there because of the radical left. He’s controlled by the radical left totally. He’s exhausted. But Biden’s promised a ban on charter schools and to oppose school choice. Joe Biden is willing to spend billions and billions upon resettling refugees from all around the world, but he won’t spend one penny providing school choice to black children in America which is interesting. During their first year in office, President Obama and VP Biden cut funding for historically black colleges and universities. I’ve increased HBCU funding and I made it permanent. Just a quick story. So what was happening is that, the first year I saw these probably 42 people came up and they were the heads of individual colleges, historically black colleges, universities. And they were the heads and I see them and I said, “Oh, hello, how you doing?” They were nice people. And we took a picture in the White House. We do that. A lot of presidents don’t believe anyone should ever enter the Oval Office but them.
With me, I say, “Come on in.” But we took it picture. Then the next year they were there again. And I said, “Right. We know the story my friend. We know the story.” They were there and I said, “Oh, what are you doing back here?” They said, “We’re here because we need money again.” I said, “What do you mean again?” And I forgot about it. I said, “All right. Well, whatevs.” And they got it. And then the third year, David, they came in again, right? And I said, “What is this? What are you guys here for? I mean, you’re great people, but why?” Well, we don’t have any funding. They don’t have permanent funding. So they could be shut out if they had the wrong president. Honestly, you could have the wrong president and you wouldn’t get 25 cents. They wouldn’t give you anything.
And I said, “That’s terrible. So you come up here every… do you like doing it?” No. And the one gentleman looked at me, he said, “We feel like beggars.” That was a hell of a statement. I said, “I understand that.” And I said, “We can’t let this happen.” So we worked on it, David Purdue, all of us worked on it. Kelly worked on it. We all worked on it. And I have to say it had to go through the House. And where’s Doug? Doug worked on it. Right Doug? You remember that? That was a hard thing. It wasn’t easy. There were people that didn’t want to do it. And we got it passed. We got more money than they asked for. I said, “You’re going to need more.” I’m in the real estate business. I said, “You always need more. Whatever you think you need, you need more.”
But we got more money than they asked for and we got it for a period of 10 years, right? So I said, the only bad… we signed it together. About 42 people. We signed it together. I said, “The only bad thing is that I like your people, I won’t see you anymore. I won’t see you for another 10 years.” Let’s say, will we be president in 10 years? Only if we add a couple of terms. Now we have a story. This is your breaking news. I told you, he’s a dictator. We’ve been saying… he will not give up power. Under no circumstances will he give up power. He intends to serve at least two more terms. Oh, that’s a [inaudible 00:56:57]. You can’t joke, because if you joke, they take it away. A lot of times you add a little sarcasm in your joke, but your big serious, and then you start laughing afterwards. But they always cut it before the laugh. They cut it so that they think he’s serious. He wants 12 more years. They start shouting now, 12 more years.
Thank you. Earlier this year, Biden said that if you don’t vote for him, then you aren’t black. You know that. And this was very outrageous. This is offensive. In fact, he was very derisive of the Black Americans when he very negatively compared them to another group of Americans. It was very terrible. And he did it. Biden believes that all Black Americans have to think the same way. That’s what it was all about. Today’s Democrat Party is run by… he doesn’t know Black Americans like I do. Today’s Democratic party is run by out of touch, liberal hypocrites who stereotype you, disrespect you and sell you out. They’re only good for your six month period. Six months before the election and then they’re very nice and they want your vote and then they, as you say, I like that better than what I was to say, they forget all about you. They’re gone. They’re gone. Biden wants to lecture the country about racial justice when he spent his career hurting Black Americans, hurting Hispanic Americans and forging alliances with pro segregation Democrat senators, you know that.
Racial justice begins with Joe Biden’s retirement from public life. So today I’m urging Black Americans to walk away from the corrupt, hateful, divisive, and very extreme. And they are going crazy, Democrat Party. On no issue has the Democrat Party more totally failed the black community than public safety. Democrats have run America’s inner cities at every level of government for 100 years and even more. Last year, 19 of the top 20 most dangerous cities in America were run by Democrats. The murder rate is higher in Baltimore than in Afghanistan, El Salvador, or Honduras, right? It’s higher. Instead of fighting for public safety for these communities, the Democrats are attacking our police and empowering far left rioters, looters, and anarchists. They are anarchist. The Democrat Party’s war on cops has caused black owned businesses to be burned and black homes and churches to be totally destroyed. Most tragically of all, so many innocent black lives have been cruelly taken from us. People are dying by the thousands and black on black crime, and I want it to stop.
And people aren’t talking about it. They’re not talking about it. They’re not talking about it. In Chicago, as an example, there are weekends when 60, 70, or more people are shot. This is shot and many die. How can we allow this to go on? How can we allow this to happen? But they’re all Democrat run cities. Every year thousands of African-Americans are murdered as a result of violent crime. And again, in these Democrat run monstrosities. The way they run them, it’s worse than Afghanistan. It’s worse than… we are at war. We go to war zones and we don’t lose this many people in war zones. Democrats ignore these American victims and I won’t. And we have to be asked to come in. We have to be asked to come in. By law, they have to say, please come in. And wherever we’ve gone in, Minneapolis, we went in and we solved the problem. They should have called us two weeks earlier. They would have had a city left. But Seattle, they knew we were coming in. I said, “We’re going in? We don’t care. We’re going in.” And night before we went in, they left.
That was the end of that and others. I mean, look at Portland. I mean, how bad is Portland? How bad is Portland? And we could solve that one in about a half an hour. A bunch of young anarchists. They live with their parents in a basement also. They live in the [inaudible 01:01:42]. And I’ll always support the heroes of law enforcement, we have to. Including over 50,000 incredible black police officers who risk their lives every day to keep us all safe. They protect people that they’ve never met before. And it’s very dangerous. They’re amazing. Those pushing to defund the police are hurting black communities the most. And as I’ve always said, when there is police misconduct, the justice system must hold wrongdoers fully responsible and accountable and they will. And they will do that. Politicians supporting mob violence are not allies of the black community, they’re causing extraordinary damage grief hardship. In recent months, our nation is grieved for the tragic deaths of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd, and Ahmaud Arbery. Our hearts break for their families and for all families who have lost a loved one, especially if you look at it this way. So senseless. But we can never allow mob-rule. To have safety, to have prosperity, to have everything that you want to have, we must always ensure the rule of law. As you know, we have to-
… rule of law. As you know, we have to. Many of those who are spreading violence in our cities are supporters of an organization called the Black Lives Matter or BLM. It’s really hurting the black community. It’s hurting the black community. This is an unusual name for an organization whose ideology and tactics are right now destroying many black lives and whose first phrase was, you remember this, “Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon,” referring to our police. That’s referring to our police. The stated goal of BLM organization people is to achieve the destruction of the nuclear family, abolish the police, abolish prisons, abolish border security, abolish capitalism, and abolish school choice. That’s what their stated goals are.
This is not the agenda of the black community. This is the agenda of an extreme socialist, or worse, you know what the other word is. Yeah, Marxist, communist. But this is the extreme socialist left, but beyond that, in my opinion. That’s why the founders of the organization call themselves “trained Marxists.” And yet we have major corporations out of weakness or fear or whatever reason donating hundreds of millions of dollars to them. These are fools. These are fools. The big progressive corporations donating to BLM should instead be spending their money helping black families rebuild from these horrible left-wing riots. Wealthy liberal hypocrites want to defund the police in our inner cities while living behind walled compounds. Their walled compounds. You got to see the way some of these people live. They live pretty well. The funny thing is that if anything ever happened, they’d be the first to go. You know that, right? “Let’s go get these people.”
They’re fools. They want to get rid of school choice for black children while sending their own children to the best private schools in the land. They want to open borders, and that’s what they want, they want open borders for you but security for themselves. They want top security, but let’s open up the borders. Let’s let everybody pour into our country so that you won’t have jobs left, you won’t have anything left. And it’s a tremendous public health crisis. We built now over 330 miles of wall and it will be finished soon. Our numbers are in the border are now the best they’ve been in decades and it’s incredible what’s happened. The wall has been incredible. 330 miles, David, that’s pretty good.
A long way considering we had a party that didn’t want to let us build the wall. They wanted the wall 10 years ago. They really wanted the wall. And as soon as I wanted it, they didn’t want it. And I said it last night. We had a tremendous rally last night with probably 35,000 people. I said it last night, I said I made a mistake. I should have said, “We will not build a wall,” and we would have had funding in about 15 minutes. Instead, I had to win six different lawsuits. This was not easy. Crazy Nancy. She’s crazy. And do you notice how quiet it is now? Now that it’s 330 miles, it’ll be completed, we’re doing 10 miles a day on average. Think of this. I don’t hear any more about the wall. They don’t want to talk about the wall anymore, but the numbers are great.
Republicans will always uphold equal justice under the law. We will defend the civil rights of every single American, and we will defend our God-given freedoms, including religious liberty. And the Second Amendment, by the way. I have to save our Second Amendment. I’m the only thing standing between you and me and Second Amendment, I’m standing. We’re not going to be losing our Second Amendment. They’re going to get rid of it. You know who they put it in charge? Beto. Remember Beto? Beto O’Rourke. That’s a Spanish name. He needed the Spanish vote, right? He said, “I want Spanish.” I said, “What about Hispanic?” He said, “I don’t know about that.” He knows less about it than perhaps I do.
But Beto, I remember he had a cover in a terrible magazine. And they said he said that, “I was born to run for president.” He was hot then even though he just lost a race to. He was hot, and he said, “I was born to run for president.” Anybody that says that is a sure loser. Can you imagine if I said that, I said, “I was born to run for president.” You’d say, “This guy’s whacked out.” It’s not an easy deal going on over here. I had a very nice life before, you know that? You read about my life. You knew a lot about my life. I had a great life. What the hell did I do this for, David? Why did I do this for, David Purdue?
No, I enjoy it. You know why I enjoy it? I love it. Oh, by the way, did you see, they just got the FBI? Did you see the text messages? It’s brutal. One of the guys said, “Listen, this is really illegal. I want insurance.” They bought insurance for these people because they thought they’re going to be locked up. We got it. Now they’re going crazy. This is the hottest thing right now on the internet all over the place, boy. They’ve been looking at me. So essentially then, it was the exact opposite. And you see Biden’s son? He got three and a half… Hunter. Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? You know what I do? I call him “Where’s Hunter.” That’s his name. Where’s Hunter. We made a t-shirt, I was making a speech, I said, “Where’s Hunter?” I’m looking at this… I was kidding. I said, “Where’s Hunter?” The next day it was the biggest selling t-shirt in the history. Where’s Hunter?
No, Hunter got a check back from the wife of the mayor of Moscow for three and a half million. Would anybody except whatever he was supposed to do for three and a half million? There’s no job that I can think of. Three and a half million. Now before Biden became vice president, he got nothing. He had no money, no nothing. Got thrown out of the military. He got thrown out. He had no job. Now he’s getting checks for three and a half million from the mayor, the ex mayor, very substantial person, by the way, of Moscow. So we got it wrong. It wasn’t Trump. I have nothing to do. I didn’t have a phone call. Now think of it, let’s call Bob Mueller, put him on the case. Thank you. He said, “Let’s call Bob Mueller.” I stole from him. Hey, I plagiarized from him like Biden. That was very good. He says, “Let’s call Bob Miller.” Bob’s a sharp guy. He’ll get him. He’ll figure it out.
How about me? Three years of investigation, [inaudible 00:07:49], they find nothing. A friend of mine, very smart in New York said, very smart, he said, “You must be the most honest person and in the world. When 19 geniuses, bad people, but geniuses, plus unlimited law enforcement, 49 FBI agents, two and a half years, can’t find anything. You got to be the cleanest person in the world.” But it turned out to be the opposite story. It was them who was dealing with Russia. David, if you guys could start working on that when you get back. Doug, please, if you don’t mind. You were so incredible to me, and if you don’t mind, think of it, it was the exact opposite, Doug. He’s trying to defend us. “Please, defend the president.” Well, it turned out to be the opposite. They were the ones that were dealing with Russia. It was a disinformation campaign. Kelly, start working on that with David, please. Okay? I think Monday morning would be okay.
We are appointing a Supreme Court justice today. We are. That’s a big deal. The Democrats, they don’t think we should do it, because actually we have a lot of time left. It’s really January 20th. We have a lot of time left, but they don’t think we should do it because it’s toward the end of the fist. Well, we’ve got a lot of time left. Now, put them in our shoes. You think they’d say, “Well, I think we should probably not do this.” What chance do we have of that, Dave? Zero, would you say? No, the only difference is they would have gone even crazier. They would have gotten totally. They would have been fighting, “Let’s get it done immediately.” They would be working over the weekend. They have been not good to deal with.
But you know what? When we built this great success, it started to all come together, then we got interrupted by China. What they did, they should never have done that. They should remember this, we can never forget it. But it was starting to come together, and it will come together because we’re going to have an even greater success, in my opinion, next year. Well, Democrats have tried to silence pastors, and we had some great pastors up here. I watched backstage. I watched those guys and I said, “I don’t want to follow them. I want to follow them.” I was looking for somebody else to speak first. But they were great. Weren’t they really great? You know the truth. I could see, they love you, they love the country. They at least like me, because you know what? If they didn’t, they couldn’t do what they just did. They did it from the heart. Didn’t they? Really. I watched that. I won’t forget it either. I’m never going to forget it. I’m not forgetting. I don’t forget things.
We love you, Trump.
Thank you. I don’t forget things. Where are the pastors? They got up. Where are they? Where are they? Where are those guys? Man, oh man. I’ll never follow you again. At least we had Herschel in between, right? And Herschel didn’t like it either. That was really great. Thank you both. Thank you all very much. That was beautiful. That was from the heart and we appreciate it. We won’t forget. We won’t forget. I will fiercely defend the vital role of black churches in America. Joe Biden and the Democrats say that black lives matter but they do not protect the most vulnerable black lives of all; unborn children. They support the unlimited abortion of black children right up until the ninth month of pregnancy. And if you look at this governor of Virginia beyond, I had not heard that. But if you look at the governor of Virginia, he said, “The baby is born, and then they start to talk.”
I said, “Wait a minute, that’s not abortion. That’s not abortion. You know what that is? No, I call it execution. You’ve seen that, right? I had not heard that. You hear late term abortion. You never heard that. But the governor of Virginia, the one that thinks he’s Michael Jackson, the one whose wife stopped him from trying to imitate Michael Jackson moonwalk. Now one thing we know, he’s not going to be Michael. There’s nobody that can moonwalk like Michael. See. he got very lucky. That would have been the end if he would’ve done that. But the Democrat’s champion Planned Parenthood, an organization founded on racism that continues to target the black community. In the Republican party, we believe in protecting all black lives, including the unborn.
We believe that every child, of every race, born and unborn is made in the holy image of God. Republicans believe that all human life is sacred. At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, two agendas for the future. Now, you know that. There’s never been a difference like this. Our opponents want our children to grow up in a socialist nation. That will mean less opportunity, less prosperity, less safety and less hope for the future. The Democrat party’s message to your children is that their path is doomed and that their country is evil. My message to every child in America is the exact opposite. I want our children to know that they are part of the most exciting and incredible adventure in human history. No matter where your family comes from, no matter your background, in America, anyone can rise.
Democrats divide our country by race, Republicans unite Americans through our shared bonds of citizenship. You see it here. This glorious country is the shared heritage of all Americans. In every generation, black patriots poured out their blood, sweat, heart, and soul to defend American liberty and to realize our founding promise that we are all made equal by the hand of all mighty God. African American leaders lifted up the conscience of our nation to end slavery and segregation and secure your civil rights. Black heroes like Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, Booker T. Washington, Martin Luther King, Rosa Parks and Thurgood Marshall help the most just noble free and exceptional nation on earth.
Now with the help of a new generation of black patriots, and there, some of them are right now, we will reach new heights of glory and greatness. And you know this; we are going to revitalize our cities. It’s in the process. We will bring more jobs in factories back to our communities. We will give every single child a chance to reach their full God-given potential. We will build the most inclusive society, the most successful economy, and the most inspiring future the world has ever seen. And we will do it for citizens of every background, every race, religion, color, and creed. Together we made unbelievable progress and achieved once unimaginable success. Nobody thought it was possible. And with your support, your vote, and your voice, the best is yet to come
So this has been a great honor for me. I have a lot of friends in the audience, and I just want to thank you very much. God bless you. God bless America. God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
Hello, Jacksonville. We love Jacksonville. We love Jacksonville. I’m thrilled to be back in my home state of Florida with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. This is some crowd. I just wish the cameras would show the crowd. They don’t want to do that. They don’t like to do that. It’s harder for us to win because we have a fake news back there, but somehow we just keep on doing it. Isn’t it crazy? Isn’t it crazy? It’s interesting, when Biden comes to Florida, he’ll have 12, 13 people. You know they do the circles and he has a hard time filling up the circles. Here, we probably have 30,000 people or something. That’s a lot of people. That’s a lot of people.
Well, I want to thank you. Forty days from now, we’re going to win Florida. We’re going to win four more years in the White House. And this is the most important election in the history of our country, I believe that. It is because we’re dealing with people that are crazy. They’re going to raise your taxes. They’re going to take away your second amendment, you know that. Your second amendment is not going anywhere with me, I can tell you that. The Democrat party has been completely taken over by socialists, Marxists and far left extremists. They embrace the policies of Communist Cuba, Socialist Venezuela. They want to end the American dream for Hispanic-Americans. We love Hispanic-Americans well.
Did you see, they released a poll today? They said Trump’s doing really well. What’s going on with the Hispanic? It took you so long to figure out that I love you. How long did it take? No more of that stuff. No, the Hispanic-Americans are great. And they did, they released a poll today and nobody’s ever seen anything like it. The Republicans are beating the Democrats with Hispanic-Americans. No, we’re doing great. We’re doing great. And they never like to show those polls. Whenever you see, they don’t show too many polls, that’s only because we’re winning. We’re winning by a lot. We think we’re winning by a lot.
But the only poll that counts is on November 3rd, right? That’s the only poll that counts. So get out there, don’t let them bluff you. Whatever it is, get out there and vote. The Republican party is the party of job, safety and freedom and we will ensure that America never becomes a Socialist or Communist country. I’ve added that recently. I said, “Socialist country.” I said, “Now a Socialist or Communist country,” because these people are crazy. Kamala, Kamala is further left than Bernie. I didn’t know that. She is the furthest left in the U.S. Senate. She was up at 15% when she started, you know that right, that story? She went down to 14, then she went to 12, then she went to 11. She went to nine and eight, six, four, two, one and then she left before Iowa, the great state of Iowa, where I made ethanol possible for them, ethanol.
And I gave our farmers $28 billion, thank you very much, China. We took it out of China because they were targeting Iowa, Nebraska, a lot of our great States, Wisconsin. We gave our farmers a lot of money. Some came down to farmers down in Florida. They don’t know that. We’ve got a lot of farmers in Florida. But here’s the choice facing every Florida vote, Joe Biden will deliver a crippling shutdown. He’s actually thinking about… No, we did that and we saved millions of lives. That’s it? We’re doing good now. And by the way, your governor’s done a great job. Florida is down, low down with the China virus, it’s China virus. Some people call it coronavirus. That sounds like a beautiful place in Italy, right? No, it didn’t come from Italy. It came from China.
But this guy’s talking, he’ll shut it down. If the scientists say shut it down, he’ll shut it down. No, we’re not shutting anything down. We are doing so well. You look at our numbers. Wait until you see the third quarter. I shouldn’t say it because back there, but wait until you see how good the third quarter is going to be, and it comes out just before the election, so I’m taking a risk when I say it. You won’t believe the numbers you say. I tell you, you’re going to see numbers, nobody’s going to believe those numbers. We’re hearing from 25 to a 35% GDP. Nobody’s ever heard of that. Well, Iran has a 25% GDP too, but it’s a negative GDP of 25. They just announced negative 25.
They don’t like me too much. Be careful. Be careful. I’m delivering a safe vaccine and we’re doing a record recovery. This recovery is a record. They’ve never seen anything like it. And next year is going to be, I think, the best economic year in the history of our country, unless a very sleepy guy got in and he decided to quadruple everybody taxes. Then you can forget it. He’s a sleepy guy. Did you see he did a lid this morning? Again, lid, lid. You know what a lid is? A lid is when you put out word you’re not going to be campaigning today. So he does the lid all the time. I’m working my ass off. I’m in Texas. I’m in Ohio. I’m in North Carolina, South Carolina. I’m in Michigan. I’m all over the place, Wisconsin.
Four more years.
Thank you, thank you. But he puts a lid on. So a lid, I didn’t know what the hell I lid was. I’ve only been doing this for three and a half years. Right? But a lid is you’re not going to go out today. You’re going to stay in your apartment, or let’s put it this way, in his basement. So early in the morning, he’s put a lid on. That means nothing for the… I guess they do that for the press. The fake news goes home and they say how great he is as a candidate. They go home and they say, “He’s a great candidate,” but he put another lid, many lids. So he did a lid today, early in the morning, that he won’t be working today. And I don’t know, I’m working so hard. Maybe he’s right. Think of it. Supposing he never campaigns and he wins. You know how badly I’m going to feel? I’m working hard and you’ve got to work hard. And you know what? I said it today, we cannot have a low energy individual as our president. We can’t.
And he’s the lowest energy individual I’ve ever seen. I’ve ever seen. So we’ll see what happens, but he’s lidding up. Maybe he’s going to be great at the debate. He’s been doing it for 47 years. Somebody said, “Oh, he won’t do well at the debate.” I said, “I think you’re wrong. He’ll do fine. He’s going to do fine.” They’ll give him a big shot or something and he’ll go out there. He’ll have a lot of energy. He’ll have energy. He’ll be like Superman for about 15 minutes. Biden’s plan will crush Florida. My plan will crush the virus and we’re doing it. We’re rounding the third. We’re rounding the turn. Under my leadership, prosperity will surge. Normal life, oh I love normal life. We want to get back to normal life. We’ll fully resume. The Florida tourism and hospitality industries will reach record highs. That’s what’s going to happen, you see it. And next year will be one of the greatest years.
We are going to have… I’m telling you, mark it down and if I’m wrong, you’ll say I was wrong. I’ll say, “Sorry about that.” But we’re going to have a great year. We’re going to have a great everything. Our country is doing great. Our military has never been stronger. We’ve taken out so many bad ones. Hopefully it’s so strong that we’ll never have to use it. You understand that? You’ll want to make it so strong. We’ve never had weapons like this. No country in the world ever possessed the power, the weaponry. What we have is so incredible. Nobody’s ever possessed it before, not Russia, not China, not anybody. We’re the envy of the world.
Russia, not China, not anybody, we’re the envy of the world. Hope to God, we never have to use them. That’s all I can tell you. This election is about jobs. By the way, speaking of jobs, it’s all made in the USA everything we have.
This election is also about law and order. You know, they said, “Oh, don’t say law and order. That’s too tough a term.” They say, “Sir, say law and order very lightly.” Then say, ” And safety and liberty and this.” I said, “No, no, it’s about law and order.” We have to have law and order, right?
These Democrat run states are a disaster. They’re a disaster. You look at what’s happening all over the country and many of them, look at Portland. How bad is that? I mean, how bad is that? I will say last night in Kentucky, I spoke to the governor. He’s a Democrat. We had a great talk and he pulled out his national guard, and he’s doing it good. I gave him credit. I give him credit, but mostly they don’t want to do that. I say, “Let us send the national guard.” I did it in, you remember? Minnesota. We’re going to win Minnesota.
So, I did it in Minneapolis. Minnesota, they were having a hard time. It took a little long, a little longer than we wanted, but we got the okay to get in. We solved that problem in about 25 minutes, I think it took. They formed a line. That was the hard part. The easy part was just walking straight ahead. They never flinched. They were not socially distanced. They were right next to each other. They had $250,000 piece uniforms. They had more stuff in their head.
I’m trying to figure out what is it. They had computers. They had infrared goggles. They had everything. They walk forward with their canisters of tear gas and pepper spray. It was, remembered the CNN reporter? He went down. He got hit on the knee with a can of, what? Yeah, that’s right, he got hit. He said, “I’m down. I’m down.” He was down. Still bad. I felt badly for him though. He went down, Ali Velshi. Remember, he was standing and he was saying, “This is a friendly protest. It’s wonderful to see the lovely people that are here.” He’s ducking and behind him, the entire city was burning down. Do you remember that? The entire city. Why are they doing that? What’s the purpose of it? I don’t get it. I don’t get it. But no, he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas. They say it hurts, hurts.
Follow the money.
That’s only going 52 miles an hour. A bullet goes about 2,000 miles an hour, but they say it hurts. But they cleaned out that city in half an hour. They had no problem. Minneapolis, that’s one of the reasons I’m going to win. Another reason would be Ilhan Omar. That’s a reason. Omar, we’re going to win because of Omar. That’s a beauty. That’s really, she’s great. She’s great. She loves our country very much. She has a total disrespect for our country, and I think she has hatred for our country, but I would say Omar is a big reason that we’re going to win. They’re not too fond of her in Minnesota. I’ll always fight for the right of all citizens to live in security and peace, so we have law and order.
Joe Biden is weak as hell. He surrendered his party to flag burners, riders and anti- police radicals, the Democrat party’s war on police. A lot of people say cops, I never liked the word. My father, sit down, please. Come on, won’t be here for awhile. What the hell. [inaudible 00:24:42] We have nothing else to do. I have nothing else to do except run a country. The hardest part about running the country is dealing with crazy Democrats. We’re working on stimulus for people, because it’s not their fault. It was China’s fault that we can’t get Nancy Pelosi to approve it. She wants to wait until after the election. I said, “People want their money now. Not going to have any impact from that standpoint, people want their money now.”
The Democrat party’s war on cops is putting the lives of innocent police officers in danger, but my father had great respect, always had great respect for law enforcement, for the police. One time, I said, “Dad, the cops are out there. Look at that, they look great.” He says, “Never use the word cops. It’s police.” That’s the kind of respect he had. He thought, I don’t want to, you know? Right. Look, I have this couple of pretty rough looking guy. No, it’s true. So, I always find it a little hard.
I just left an impression, this police. He thought it was slang. I don’t think they mind. I don’t think … How many? We got a lot of them here. Does anybody mind the term cops? Who’s here that’s a police man or woman, policeman? Do they mind? A lot of them. A lot of them. Do they mind that term cops? No. They just want respect and they just want to be allowed to do their job properly as nobody can do it. You agree with that? That’s what I say. All right. Now start calling them cops. Respect us and let us do our job.
Earlier this month, two sheriff’s deputies were ambushed at close range in Los Angeles, California. I called them both and they’re okay, but they were hit. They were hit bad. Last night, as you know, two police officers were shot in Louisville, Kentucky. Every year, dozens of courageous police officers lay down their lives for people that they never met, people that they don’t know, people they never saw in most cases, right? They laid down their lives for people they never met. They’re incredible. Law enforcement, let’s give them a hand, please.
Red and blue! Red and blue! Red and blue! Red and blue! Red and blue! Red and blue!
Thank you very much. That’s good. I tell them all the time, we have endorsements from all of them, but I tell them all the time, you have no idea how much you’re loved. They don’t hear it because they watch the fake news at night, and you don’t get the truth. So, that’s a lot of people back there. That’s a lot of fakers back. Look at all those red lights. The red light means you’re on live. The problem with being on live, you make a little bit of a mistake and they say, “This was a horrible evening.”
Hear our voice! Hear our voice! Hear our voice! Hear our voice! Hear our voice! Hear our voice! USA! USA! USA! USA!
All right. Thank you. That’s enough. That’s enough of it. No, it’s very dishonest. It’s a shame. Really does hurt our country. It’s so fake. They don’t show the protesters. They don’t show it. When you think that like cities are burning down and storefronts are being exploded, people are being killed, they would have you believe there’s nothing happening. It’s the most incredible thing. I don’t even understand why. No matter what your philosophy is, no matter where you stand, why wouldn’t you want to show the facts, show what’s happening? Then we fix it.
The Republican cities don’t have trouble. The Republican states, they don’t have trouble. You go to different states, they don’t know … They find it, some of these governors, friends of mine, and I have friends on both sides, but Republican governors, red states, they look like, how is a thing like this possible? Because they have law and order. They have law and order for this. That’s what it is.
For the entire summer, Joe Biden was silent as his far left supporters assaulted police officers, harassed innocent Americans and set fire to buildings. There were rioters. There were looters. They were anarchists. He called them peaceful protesters. He said they’re peaceful protesters. Joe, they’re not peaceful. Now, maybe he may believe it. I mean, honestly, they may say they’re peaceful. Okay, I’ll say they’re peace. I think he believes it. I actually do. It’s the other ones that you have to worry about, because they call the shots, not him. He’s called for the ridiculous cutting of police funding, abolishing cash bail, if you can believe that and the closing of our prisons. They want to close up prisons. That’s a good idea. He even described law enforcement as the enemy. He said law enforcement is the enemy. Now, I assume, I’ll ask the fake news. Has he taken it back? I assume, because he’s taken everything back. He’s taken anti-fracking back. He’s taken pretty much everything back, but remember, it’s the first thing they say that’s what they stick with. Biden’s anti-police crusade must stop. As president, I will always stand with the heroes of law enforcement, that’s why we’re here.
I was honored to receive the endorsement of 48 sheriffs right here in Florida three weeks ago, and all over the country, law enforcement from Texas, Arizona, Ohio, Oklahoma, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, New York’s finest endorsed me. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate. The National Troopers Coalition. Chicago, how about that? Chicago police, they endorsed me, Chicago. All the major law enforcement organizations all across our country.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
They go back home to mommy. Mommy, I’m sorry. I’m sorry. You know the incredible thing about that? I didn’t hear anything except our crowd. No, they have no voice. They’re screaming at the top of their lungs, but their lungs are very small, and I didn’t hear, all of a sudden, you hear wah like this right here. That’s true. People, if you wouldn’t recognize them, we wouldn’t even know they’re here. Now tomorrow, the headline is, so you have one young protester, the headline will be tomorrow, Trump’s rally broken up by protests. One very young girl, she’s a girl …. girl, she looks like she’s like about … years old. How the hell has that happened? 200 generals and … leaders, also hundreds of … spouses … given their complete and total endorsement … to uphold our land and to uphold our …. as written on Saturday … announcing my nominee to the … States Supreme Court.
It’s true. It’s going to be a big deal. We’re doing it at the White House, the Rose garden of the White House unless it’s raining. In which case, we’ll still do it there. That’s okay. It’s beautiful, the White House. So beautiful. We love the White House, right outside the Oval Office. They don’t want us to do it. The Democrats say, “You shouldn’t do it.” Why? We have a lot of time. Let me ask you the one simple question. If it was them, instead of us, do you think they do it? I think so. No, this will be a very talented person. It will be a woman. I’m sorry, man. It will be a woman. All right. Ready?
Who wouldn’t rather see a man? Oh, that’s trouble. Try it again. Who would rather see a man? That’s not good. Who would rather see a woman? I think it would be, really, I think it would take tremendous courage. I don’t care how great the man is. Ladies and gentlemen, I’d like to tell you that Jim Fitzgerald, and then you would see a lot of very unhappy faces. Right? My opponent refuses to release his lists of potential justices because they will be handpicked by extremists like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Sometimes known as AOC plus three, right? AOC. One of the three I think is Omar, right? But they’ll pick her first.
So, if Biden does that, if he puts an extremist in to that position, he loses everything that’s like normal. If he does the other way, he loses the left. So, he doesn’t want to give a left. I’d love to have him put up a list. I’d like to see what that, I could see what that list would be. I could already tell you the people on that list. It would not be good. It would not be pretty. You would not be happy. That would be the end. If given power, Biden and his supporters would pack the court. They’re talking about pack into court, because we have one race. We have one. I’ll tell you what. So this will be my third and we’re in great shape. You see what’s going on with the Republican party, how unified the Republican party is? Right. Now we’re unified. It’s a beautiful thing to say. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you. Appreciate it. Even Mitt’s on board. Even Mitt’s on board.
No, it’s a good thing to see having a unified part. Of course, when they did the impeachment hoax, we had 197 to nothing in the house and 52 and a half to a half. That was Mitt, but that’s okay. I’m no longer angry at Mitt, because he’s being very nice on the Supreme Court. He’s doing the right thing. I just want him to do the right thing, but they want to pack the court. You know what that means? They want to put on a lot of justices. These are things that are just horrible. I guess we could do that too. Right? We could do that too. But remember, it was Harry Reid that made this all possible. They’re angry at us. Listen, Chuck, Crying Chuck, you know who Crying Chuck is? Chuck.
Every time you complain, remember it was Harry Reid, your person in charge. He had your job before. It was Harry Reid who made this all possible. Thank you very much, Harry. I hope you’re enjoying your evening. No, they blame us. Harry Reid gave us the power, nuclear … very much, but he wants to pack the Supreme Court with radicals who will terminate the second amendment, confiscate your firearms, eliminate the right to self defense, strike under God from the pledge of allegiance and all other places, tear down crosses from public spaces and force taxpayers to fund extreme late term abortion.
These far left … violent criminals, shield foreign terrorist, impose sanctuary cities and declare the death penalty totally unconstitution. Hey, it will be totally unconstitutional. They wanted to declare it unconstitutional for even the most depraved mass murderers. And it’s a tough thing. It’s a tough thing. They came to my office today and the death penalty for clemency. I said, “What was the crime?” The crime was so horrible that I won’t tell you what it was, but it’s been going on for 21 years or so. The crime was so horrible that this person committed, that I said, “Look, I just can’t talk about it.” It was so horrible. That’s usually the case, usually the case like the Boston bomber.
By the way, they want to give votes to prisoners, people in prison. They want to give votes. So we immediately said, remember Bernie? Crazy Bernie. Bernie is, I’ll tell you one thing about him. He’s the greatest loser I’ve ever seen. No, true. No, I mean that in a respectful way, because what they did to him with Hillary was bad, but this time was even worse. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren would have left the campaign one day before super Tuesday, Bernie with her ideology basically, because she’s a radical left and she was really fresh to him, but she was really fresh. How bad was Elizabeth Warren to Joe Biden? There’s only one person that was worse.
Who was worse? Kamala. I said he’ll never, this shows you my great instinct, my great knowledge of politics. I said, “He will never pick Kamala because no human being has been treated worse than anybody than Kamala.” Remember, she called him a racist. She called him xenophobic. She called him all sorts of things. She called him things that were so bad, I can say them. I can’t say them, but she called him a lot of things. I said, “Well, she’s out.” Then he picks her. She picks her. You always pick people going up, not going down in the polls. If I were get to pick, and by the way, how good is Mike Pence? Is he great? Okay.
He’s a rock. He’s a solid guy and he’s a great guy and a great vice president. He worked so hard. He’s all over the place. He’s in Michigan. He’s everywhere. Where you go today, Mike? I went to Michigan, North Carolina, South Carolina. I went to Wisconsin and the guy, I’ll tell you what, he’s an incredible guy and he’s a great guy. He loves the people of this country. He loves our country. You cannot do better than Mike Pence. You know that.
If you want to save America, you must get out and vote. In just three and a half years, we’ve secured our borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the US military, obliterated ISIS caliphate 100%, fixed our disastrous trade deals and they were a disaster. I read some of them. I said, “Who agrees to this stuff?” Stupid people agree to it, and brought jobs back home to America. We brought them back. You had the greatest year you’ve ever had last year, the greatest year you’ve ever had. Under 16 years of presidents, Obama and Bush, household income rose only $2,945. Okay. That’s over a course of 16 years, close to 3,000, right? In three years and including energy because look at the saving. How are you doing at the gas pump? Not so bad, right? Did you ever see that? You ever think that was going to happen? In three years, so that was less than 3,000 over 16, in-
So that was less than 3,000 over 16. In three years, you went up $10,000, including energy. We lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction in the first three years of any president in the history of our country. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Not only here, anywhere. We were beating everybody.
For years, I heard that China in 2019, was going to overtake us, right? That didn’t happen. Then they released the plague, but that didn’t happen. And it still’s not happening with the plague, because they got hit hard themselves. I wonder if they understood that they were going to get hit too. But the plague came here, they could have stopped it. They could have stopped it from going all over the world. 188 countries all over the world, including Europe and the United States.
We’ve added a record 10.6 million jobs in the last four months, including 3.3 million jobs for Hispanic Americans. That’s a record.
When the plague arrived from China. We launched the largest national mobilization since World War Two. We pioneered life saving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April, you see what’s happened. Europe has almost a 50% greater excess mortality rate than the United States. And now you see they’re being hit very hard. The fake news was saying, “Well, I don’t know if you’ve done as well as Europe.” I said, “We did better than Europe.” And now Europe is exploding again, unfortunately, I don’t want that to happen, but they don’t want to talk about that because that’s not good for their narrative.
Our early and aggressive action saved many millions of lives through Operation Warp Speed, we developed and distribute a vaccine. We will have a vaccine so soon you won’t even believe it. Although they’re trying to do a little bit of a political hit today, just a little bit, you notice that? Let’s delay the vaccine just a little bit. But we have three great companies and then others also. Johnson &amp; Johnson, right? Pfizer, Moderna, great companies, all of them, great companies. And they’re right there. They’re way advanced, way advanced, they’re in the final steps.
I took historic action to get critical relief for American workers. Through our paycheck protection program, we save 3.2 million Florida jobs.
We’re launching a historic effort to bring our medical supply chains back home, where they belong. In 1996, Joe Biden voted to obliterate Puerto Rico’s thriving pharmaceutical industry. I am reversing that and we’re going back so that Puerto Rico can get its pharmaceutical industry back, and they’re going to have it back soon. That was Joe Biden that did that. And then they’ll vote because automatic, they vote for a Democrat. What’s the purpose? He’s the one that did it. He’s the one. Look what he did, how devastated, look at what he did to our African-American community. And people don’t want to talk about it. But what he did was devastating. Devastating. He’s not good for anyone, let’s face it.
Last week, I also announced an additional $13 billion that goes to disaster relief for Puerto Rico. They got hit hard. I hope they remember that. That was given by Trump, not by the Democrats. Our hearts are also with the communities in the Panhandle. I love the Panhandle. Ron will tell you. I’ll tell you. You’re a great governor and he’s doing a great job. He called up, he said the Panhandle’s hit, sir. They love you in the Pan-, I think I’m at about 99. 9% in the Panhandle. But we took care of the Panhandle, you remember Hurricane Sally? That was not good, but we took care of it. Ron came into my office, he’d say, “Sir, we need more money.” I said, “How much?” He gave me a number you don’t even want to believe. I said, “You got it, Ron. Don’t come back, Ron.” He comes back about three days later, “Sir, we need more money.” But that’s I guess, a good governor. That’s what a good governor does, right? That’s what a good governor does. I approved a major disaster declaration for the State of Florida last night. And we will be with you every step of the way, every step, we’re there so fast. We sometimes, other presidents took long time to approve them. I approve them before the storms hit shore, because we know what’s going to happen. We took care of Florida.
On November 3rd, Florida will decide whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity, or whether we allow Joe Biden to kill the recovery, delay the vaccine, impose a $4 trillion tax hike, ban American energy, which he wants to do, destroy the suburbs. He’s going to destroy the suburbs. Give free healthcare to illegal aliens, which means millions and millions of people are going to pour into our country and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in their class, in their school room.
To combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools, I announced something last week that was very popular. That we’re launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission. We’ll teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the Earth. And you haven’t seen anything yet. You see what we’re doing. I’ve also issued an executive order to prohibit the teaching of critical race theory in the federal government.
That hateful Marxist doctrine paints America as a wicked nation, seeks to divide everyone by race, rewrites American history, and teaches people to be ashamed of themselves and be ashamed of their country. That’s not happening anymore. We fired so many of these wise guys. We had one getting $350,000 a year teaching our military this stuff. And he said, “What happened?” We said, “You’re fired. Get out.” Many people.
No, it’s become a cancer. It’s like a cancer, but many, many people gone. They’re all gone. And if they’re not, let us know and we’ll let them go. But we have to unite together as one proud American family. That’s what we are. We’re joined tonight by some incredible warriors, some incredible people. One of them that I’m most proud of is a man that came to this state and what a job he’s done. Your great governor, Ron DeSantis. He’s doing a great job. Ron is doing a great job. Ron, how are we doing on the election? How are we doing on November 3rd, Ron? He says, good. We better do good. He won a great primary, then he beat a man that they said had a good future. I’m not thinking his future is looking to good. How’s his future. I don’t think it’s to good right now. Ron was great, tough and strong, and he didn’t choke under pressure. That’s for sure. But much more important than Ron is the First Lady of Florida, Casey DeSantis.
The Mayor of Jacksonville, a really good guy. I got him to really, he wanted to do it so bad. We wanted to have our Republican National Convention right here in Jacksonville. But the timing was a little bit bad. We got hit a little bit with COVID, as they say, we got hit a little bit with the China virus, but I’ll tell you what, Lenny Curry was absolutely fantastic. Your mayor, Lenny Curry.
All right. You ready? Some of the greatest, toughest warriors you’ll ever meet. During the impeachment hoax, they said, this is the biggest pile of crap you’ve ever seen. I’m the only guy in history that got impeached for an absolutely perfect conversation. It was perfect. We sent it around. Everyone said, “What’s wrong with this? We sent it to the Justice Department, please check this. Thank goodness we had people that were taking it down, right? Exact notes, great patriots. They took it down, two of them, and it was perfect. We sent it to the Justice Department. Please examine this conversation. We’d like to know what you think. They called back, they said, “Okay, listen, what exactly are you looking for here?” These guys are used to looking at killings and drug dealers and they’re saying, “Explain to us, what are you looking for? We don’t see it.” This was the greatest hoax.
And today, by the way, you see what happened. They caught him. They’ve got him cold. They got him cold. We’ll talk about it in a sec. They caught him. They now find out that Trump was a hundred percent truthful. It was a hoax. They got him cold, it was just announced. Dan Scavino just said, “It’s the biggest, it’s the hottest thing on the internet.” They got him cold. We’ll talk about it in a second. But these are warriors. When I needed warriors, I had Representative Matt Gaetz. Where is he?
Matt, what a great guy. What a guy. Big future. Thank you, Matt. What a warrior. Thank you. He’s very shy on television, right? I noticed. He’s great. Thank you, Matt. Ted Yoho. Ted, where’s Ted? Great job.
Now, a man that is in charge of all spying. He was so good that Matt and Ron and Ted and Mike Waltz, and a lot of people came to see me. Mike, another great one. Thank you, Mike. Is John Rutherford here? Good job, John. Thank you for the help. Thank you, John. But Mike Waltz has been so great and candidate for Congress, Kat Cammack. Kat. So Kat was in the Oval Office yesterday, right? And I said, “How you doing?” “Sir, I’m up 42.” I said, “42 what?” 42 points. That was a big Trump district, right? You’re not in any real trouble. That’s for sure. She’s got it. That was a great win you had, she’ll be with us a long time, a long time. I really appreciate it.
And we also have some others that are running for different offices in the Republican Party. And we love the Republican Party. They have been incredible. They have been incredible. We also have some of our really unbelievable, undercover operatives. And if you don’t mind, I won’t introduce them. All right? I don’t think we’re going to introduce them. I want to so badly. I want to have them stand up and bring them up here. I want to hug him and kiss him, which I’m not allowed to do because of social distancing. But somehow they’ve may lose some effectiveness if I introduce them. So they’re in the crowd. I saw two of them and I won’t bother, but they are great, great champions of our country.
And also here is a woman who was so, I mean, she was tough. She was in charge of a great state, Michigan. As you kept asking me, “Come back, you’re going to win.” Everyone said Republicans hadn’t won Michigan in many decades. And I felt I should because I was bringing back and I was doing so much for the business and jobs and bringing people back and recommending and telling them, you’re losing your business to Mexico, Canada. And they gave me, 12 years ago, they gave me the man of the year in Michigan. And I made this crazy speech that I said, “You’re losing all your jobs to Mexico.” And all of a sudden I’m running for office and a woman who handled it was unbelievable. She’d say to me, “Sir, would you please come and make a speech?” I said, “Who are you?” “My name is Ronna McDaniel. I’m in charge of Michigan.” Where’s Ronna?
She said, “My name is Ronna McDaniel. I’m a charge of Michigan.” I said, “I hear we don’t have a chance.” We should win Michigan. But I hear, “You’re going to win it if you come here.” So I went and made a speech. Then I went and made another speech. Then she’d call again and again, I couldn’t take it. And then I said, “Look, I’ll do one more.” She wanted me to do one more. She said, “I’m telling you, you’re going to win. Do one more.” This is two weeks left. And I said, “All right, this is it, though, this is it.” I’ve devoted a lot of time to Michigan. And everyone says you can’t win. By the way, just got a poll, we’re three points up in Michigan.
She said, “Sir,” then she used to call me Mr. Trump, I wasn’t president yet. She said, “Sir, please, just this one time, this is it, three weeks out.” I said, “All right, this is it. Can’t do anymore. I’ve got to go to a lot of states. That’s it.” “This is it, sir, I promise.” So I did it. Then the night before the election, she said, “Sir, you’re going to win Michigan, but you got to make one more stop.” I said, “You got to be-”
And I made it on election day. I arrived at 1215 in the now morning. That was now election day, right? I started speaking at one o’clock in the morning on election day. My wife said, “Are you crazy?” We had 32,000 people. And the reason I went, she wanted us there. But we found out that crooked Hillary Clinton, Barack Hussein Obama, and Mrs. Obama and Bill Clinton were traveling to Michigan unexpectedly because as Bill Clinton told them three months ago, “You’re going to have trouble with Trump and Michigan.” They don’t want to listen to him. they said, ‘Oh, well,” because he’s a natural politician. And he said, “You’re going to have trouble in Wisconsin too, and be careful of Minnesota.” This was Clinton. Remember they were laughing, they thought he was very funny. But they knew they were in trouble. So they flew there. They had 500 people. I went there. I start speaking at one in the morning with 32,000 people in Grand Rapids, Grand Rapids.
In Grand Rapids. And I said, it’s like this. I said, “We’re not going to lose this state.” You can’t lose. When you have a crowd, you can’t lose. You can look at a crowd, I can look at this crowd. I can say, “Look at it.” As far as the eye can see, as far as the eye can see. I’d leave here, I said, “We’re not losing Florida.” I can tell you that, you could tell, you can feel it. You can feel it. You have an instinct. We’re joined as well by a group of incredible supporters who have recently walked away from the Democrat Party. They walked away from the Democrats. They just registered as Republicans. Thank you. Thank you. And they’re going to be voting for us. It’s just a whole big group of people. And I thank you. And you’re all over the place. Thank you, thank you. They know. It’s called, they’re smart and they have common sense.
We’ve spent the last four years reversing the terrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. Together, we’ve taken on a corrupt and broken system that’s been throwing everything at us from the very beginning. And remember this and I say it all the time. I’ve done more in 47 months than Joe Biden’s done in 47 years. But today a trove of text messages was released from the FBI agents involved in the Russia witch hunt. You had to see this. This is what I was talking about before. The headline from the Federalist reads, Trump was right, explosive new FBI texts detail internal furor over handling of the crossfire hurricane investigation. That was the name. We caught him. We had him before this, but this is like, remember the insurance policy, darling, darling. Oh, I love you so much, darling. She’s going to win, isn’t she? Yes. 100 million to one. That’s not good odds for me. They might not have been great, but they were a lot better than that. 100 million to one, Lisa, I love you so much. But if for some reason she doesn’t win, we have an insurance policy, that’s what we’ve been living through, their insurance policy. You can’t be any more obvious than that.
These people are scum. They were trying to do a coup, who would think? And we caught them. Before that, we caught them spying on our nation and they’ve gotten caught. Let’s see what happens with them now. But this was a big day. This was a big day. Never forget they are coming after me because I am fighting for you, there’s a lot of truth to that.
For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars, and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities, and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA. Joe Biden championed every globalist betrayal of America for 47 years. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA, the worst trade deal ever made, emptied out your factories. And he was a cheerleader for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s rampant theft of American jobs. And I proudly signed a historic executive order, making it official government policy to buy American and hire American.
By the way, you ever seen this guy? He’s using my slogan. He’s using my slogans. I saw him the other day. It’s like, buy American. I said, “I’ve been saying that for five years,” right? He’s using my, he has no clue, I’m telling you. You got to come up with your own slogans.
… I’m telling you. You’ve got to come up with your own slogans, Joe. We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military and launched the first new branch of U.S. Armed Forces in nearly 75 years after the Air Force, the Space Force. Right here. We passed VA choice and VA accountability. Nobody thought that could happen. We have a 91% approval rating of the VA. 91% approval rating, highest in history, highest ever. Do you ever see, I don’t want to say this to them because they’ll find the vets, is there an unhappy vet some place? 91% approval. Remember, we used to always watch every night, you’d see things on the news about how badly the vets are treated. Now we have a 91% approval rating. My guys are doing a great job. And today, I can announce that the VA is approving a new $46 million lease for a brand new Veterans Healthcare Clinic in North Jacksonville.
We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, Al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s number one terrorist. All over the world, number one. The mass murder of American troops and many others, Qasem Soleimani is dead. Took him out. He deserved to be taken out. We withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. $150 billion, do you know what he got for it? Nothing. 1.8 billion in cash. He got nothing, nothing. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East. You saw what is happening there. In fact, I was nominated for two Nobel Peace Prizes last week. You know the story. You know the story.
And I told our great First Lady, I said, “First Lady, I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. I’m going to come home early. I’m going to watch it on NBC News,” which is one of the biggest scam jobs I’ve ever seen. NBC probably worse than CNN, NBC. “But we’re going to watch it. We’re going to watch the evening news. So we’ll watch the second place NBC.” You know it is. It’s second place. They spent all this money on PR and then I hit them hard. But they are bad. I said, “First Lady, wait till you see it. Nobel Peace Prize. This will definitely be the biggest thing.” All right, ladies and gentlemen, NBC News, they start off with you. They said you got some heavy rain. They started off with something else, something else, something else, something else. Now the show’s almost over. I said, “First Lady, they’re not mentioning the Nobel Peace prize. This is very embarrassing.” But then it was okay because two days later, I got nominated again. That was for Israel. I got nominated again.
Remember when Obama got it, they said, “Ladies and gentlemen, Barack Hussein Obama has just been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.” So what happened? I said, “First Lady, I just got nominated again. This time for Kosovo-Serbia. They’re not killing each other anymore. I stopped it. It’s totally different.” The first was Israel, Bahrain, UAE. This one was close to a totally different one. I don’t know if that’s ever happened before. I said, “First Lady, let’s give it another shot.” We watched the news, never even mentioned it. When Barack Obama got his Nobel Prize immediately after he got elected, they asked him, “Why did you get it?” He had no clue. Nobody knew. Nobody knew. And it was a big story. Breaking news. “We have breaking news.” They didn’t have breaking news when I got it, but that’s why we understand the press. We understand them very well. They’re fake.
The last administration made a pathetic one-sided deal with a Castro dictatorship that betrayed the Cuban people and enriched the communist regime. My opponent stands with socialists and communists. I stand with the proud people of Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom. And you’re going to win that very soon. You’re going to win that very soon. The last administration also negotiated the terrible Obama-Biden-Santos deal with Colombian drug cartels. They surrendered the narco terrorists. They surrendered to them and they caused illicit drug production to soar. Under my administration, we worked with our Colombian partners to launch a historic rival operation against the drug traffickers. And since April, we have seized or disrupted 227 metric tons of poisonous narcotics. Nobody has ever done anything like it.
Joe Biden opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden. He opposed killing Soleimani. He voted for the Iraq War. He backed the disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. And he cheered for the rise of China as a positive development for our country. I don’t think so. That was a disaster. Now Biden is put forward the most dangerous and extreme platform of any major party nominee in history. The band news is he doesn’t even know what the hell it is. The Biden plan would destroy social security and destroy protections for pre-existing conditions. It will drain your Medicare by giving free healthcare to illegal immigrants that will come over to this country by the millions when they see this. End virtually all immigration enforcement and oppose totally open borders. He would terminate our travel bans on jihadist regions. Remember, I got that approved. They kept saying, “Oh, he lost. He lost. He lost.” And then I won in the Supreme Court. We have a travel ban. Guess what?
And increase refugee admissions by over 700%, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. He wants to ban school choice and ban charter schools, which are absolutely imperative for our children. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assault on law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Second Amendment.
We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep out of America, of our great country, we will stay away from those ridiculous, endless, foreign wars. They never end. Endless foreign wars. They’re all coming home. They’re all coming home. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength. And nobody has strength like we have strength. Peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, and further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs. They’re going to becoming down by 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70% favored. Favored Nations. Favorite Nations Clause, we’ll be paying as low as anybody in the world. It’s called Favored Nations. Nobody had the guts to do it. And they are spending a lot of money on ads against me right now, that Big Pharma. They are spending a lot of money. We will strongly protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.
We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you! We love you!
Thank you. That’s really nice.
We love you! We love you!
I had such a nice life before doing this. But no administration has ever done in the first three and a half years, not even close, what we’ve done, and that’s very gratifying, I want to tell you that. And thank you very much. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.” For years, you had a President who apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Florida. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers and get out and vote. We have to win this election. Most important election we’ve ever had. Early voting has already begun. Don’t wait, vote. It’s safe. Go out and vote. I hear we’re doing very well, by the way. That’s what the word is. We’ll see. We’ll see. But I hear we’re doing very well. From Tampa to Tallahassee, from Orlando to Miami, from Pensacola to right here in Jacksonville, we stand on the shoulders of Florida patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We inherit the legacy of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, raised up the skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and from here, in this beautiful, beautiful state, this sun drenched state of Florida, we launched American astronauts to the moon, we made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come. You watch. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning the power to you, the American people. With your health, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Florida, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.
Thank you, Florida. Thank you, Florida.
Well, thank you. Very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. So many doctors, so many fantastic doctors and nurses. That’s great. Please sit down. I’m thrilled to be here in North Carolina with so many of these unbelievable professionals, doctors, nurses, and amazing healthcare workers. Really an honor of mine. As the world witness during our battle against the China virus, America has the greatest medical professionals anywhere on earth. Today, I will lay out my vision for a healthcare system that puts patients first, families first, and perhaps most importantly for all of us, America first. Thank you. Thank you.
Under the America First Healthcare plan, we will ensure the highest standard of care anywhere in the world, cutting edge treatment, state-of-the-art medicine, groundbreaking cures, and true health security for you and your loved ones, and we will do it rapidly, and it’s in very good order, and some of it has already been implemented. In short, we’re delivering better care with more choice and a much lower cost and working to ensure Americans have access to the care they need. My plan expands affordable insurance options, reduces the cost of prescription drugs, will end surprise medical billing, increases fairness through price transparency, streamlines bureaucracy, accelerates innovation, strongly protects Medicare and always protects patients with pre-existing conditions.
By contrast, the Democrat Party is pushing a socialist nightmare. Their plans will result in rationing care, denying choice, putting Americans on wait lists, driving the best doctors out of medicine permanently, and delaying life saving cures. Over 130 Democrats in Congress including Senator Harris have endorsed legislation to outlaw the private health plans of 180 million Americans. On top of it all, former Vice President Joe Biden promised to give free federal healthcare to anyone in the world who illegally crosses our border. His plan to provide government healthcare to illegal immigrants would bankrupt our healthcare system, collapse our hospitals and destroy Medicare, while bringing in millions and millions of people lured into our country. As long as I am president, we will save go to our borders and our seniors.
We are pleased to be joined today by Secretary of Health and Human Services, done a great job, Alex Azar. Alex. Hi, Alex. Thank you. And very importantly, CMS Administrator Seema Verma. Thank you, Seema. A great friend of mine and a great friend of healthcare, frankly, Senator Bill Cassidy. Bill. Hi, Bill. Representatives Michael Burgess and Greg Murphy, so instrumental. Thank you. Thank you, folks. And many, many state and local officials are here with us. Thank you very much. Since the plague arrived from China, we have seen our doctors, nurses, first responders, scientists, and researchers at their very best. We slashed red tape to accelerate the development of life-saving treatments, reducing the fatality rate by 85% since April. Incredible. Overall, Europe has seen an almost 50% greater excess mortality rate than that of the United States, and despite Europe’s punishing lockdowns, they’re now seeing a huge surge, very sadly, in cases. Under Operation Warp Speed, my administration is developing a vaccine in record time. It will be distributed before the end of the year and may be quite a bit sooner than that. Four vaccines are now in the final stage of clinical trials. It’s just about at the end. A lot of things are looking very good. It is the most ambitious vaccine program in U.S. history, probably in any history. The vaccines are being mass-produced in advance so they can be delivered within 24 hours of approval. The vaccine will be safe, and it will be effective. It will defeat the virus, and it will end the pandemic. The economy will surge to record highs. You see what’s happening with the numbers that are coming out. Records all. Normal life will fully resume. That will be great. And next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country from an economic and hopefully in many other ways. When I was elected, I inherited a thing called Obamacare. Has anybody heard of Obamacare? It was terrible. That’s the way I feel too. It was terrible and very, very expensive. Hurt a lot of people. Premiums were too high. Deductibles were a disaster. Patients had no choice. You couldn’t keep your doctor, but by far, the worst part of Obamacare was this thing called the individual mandate.
As part of our largest ever tax cut in the history of the United States, we put in a provision to kill this worst provision of Obamacare, the individual mandate. It was a disaster, and it was really the essence of Obamacare. It made you pay a tremendous amount of money in order to not have to pay for health insurance. Think of that. You had to pay a fortune in order not to have health insurance. It was really terrible and so unfair to so many. Destroyed families. We were able to terminate the individual mandate but kept the provision protecting patients with pre-existing conditions. That particular law would never have been signed if it were otherwise. Obamacare is no longer Obamacare as we worked on it and managed it very well. We stabilized it, got premiums down very substantially. That was Alex and that was Seema, And you did a fantastic job. But it’s still unacceptable to me because it’s too expensive and doesn’t really do the job as well as we could have.
So what we have now is a much better plan. It is no longer Obamacare, because we’ve gotten rid of the worst part of it, the individual mandate, and made it much less expensive. A lot of that was through good management. We manage it properly. We have tremendous people working on it. Simultaneously with all of this, we are joining in a lawsuit to end this ill-conceived plan. I’m in court to terminate this really, really terrible situation. If we win, we will have a better and less expensive plan that will always protect individuals with pre-existing conditions. If we lose, what we have now is better than the original version of Obamacare by far. Much better. Much better. Again, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
So today, I’m laying out my vision for the future of American healthcare with the America First Healthcare plan. As we restore America to full strength, the first healthcare plan will be a core part of our national renewal. In a few moments, I’ll sign an executive order outlining the three pillars of my plan and directing my administration to implement these critical reforms. The first pillar of my plan is more choice, more choice for American patients. Very important. The last administration severely restricted consumer choice through the greatest healthcare lie ever told. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. You remember that? 28 times that was stated by our president, but it turned out not to be true. When I took office, more than 50% of counties nationwide offered plans from only a single insurance company on the individual market. Starting next month, more than 90% of the counties will have multiple options to choose from, which is really some difference. Under our plan, you’ll have the freedom to shop for the option that is right for you and your family. These options include new affordable choices that cost up to 60% less than Obamacare. Think of that. 60% less. For example, we’re opening up short-term plans that are much cheaper than Obamacare, and that can be customized to your individual needs. We’re also offering association health plans that allow small businesses to pull together and offer more affordable policies to their employees. These are tremendous options that didn’t exist before we came into office. And through a massive expansion of health reimbursement arrangements, millions of Americans would be able to shop for a plan of their choice on the individual market and then have their employer cover the full cost. Furthermore, I’ll work to make individual healthcare premiums fully tax deductible. That will be a big difference.
Through these another reforms, we’re putting American patients back in charge, and we’re putting them first. My plan will also revolutionize access to telehealth. It’s something that really has taken off during the pandemic. It’s taken off like a rocket ship. It’s increased close to 9000%. Nobody was using it, and when we had the pandemic, they started using it. Then they started really liking it. Then it started getting better and better. Bill, now it’s up to 9000%. who would think that right? One of the few things that we got from this disaster that came from China. When we rapidly expanded its availability for Medicare beneficiaries during the pandemic, the number of telehealth users increased so incredibly to 14, 000 a week. It was a 1.7 million. It was increasing at levels that nobody’s ever seen before in just about any kind of a program. This is the future of healthcare. We will ensure all Americans have the freedom to consult with doctors from the safety and convenience of their homes.
The second pillar of my plan is lower costs for families and seniors. Lower costs. For years, patients have been [inaudible 00:12:03] …
For years, patients have been shocked to receive unexpected bills for thousands of dollars in medical services they never agreed to. The first America First Healthcare Plan bans this deeply unfair practice. We will end surprise medical billing. The days of ripping off American patients are over. My plan also includes the vital reform of price transparency. Price transparency is great for the great doctors, the good doctors, and it’s also great for the great and good hospitals. That’s where it’s really fantastic for them too, in addition, obviously, to the patients. For the first time ever, we will create true competition in healthcare. Both hospitals and insurance companies will be required to post all of their prices online. This transformative policy will allow you to see your exact out-of-pocket cost before you go for treatment, making it easy to shop for the best price. Costs will come way down. Some people think this will have a bigger impact than healthcare itself. It’s a tremendous thing. No matter where it’s been put, it’s been an incredible service and it’s worked miracles. It’s been brilliant for patients.
Next, I’m taking on the lobbyists and the special interests to lower the price of prescription drugs. For years, American patients have subsidized socialist nations. You know that. We talk about it all the time. Congress, they come over, we’ve been talking about it for a long time. They’ve been talking about it for years. They know the problem, but we’ve been subsidizing socialist nations and others by paying the highest drug prices in the world by far, and yet we’re the largest purchaser of prescription drugs by far. This is all while countries got away with paying so much less, so much less, incredibly less. Under my plan, we will pay the exact same price as other countries. That’s at the lowest level. We will be matching the lowest price with what’s now many times the highest price, and we won’t pay a penny more.
What will happen is the lower prices will come up a little bit, but you’ll get discounts of 40, 50, 60, 80, 90, who knows, percent, numbers that you wouldn’t even believe. We were the only ones in 52 years to bring drug prices down. The last year, they went down, as you know, but that was before this. They went down just a little bit, but just a little bit was the only time in 52 years. Now they’re going to go down massively. Favored nations, this will lead to a very large savings for American families and plummeting drug prices. They will plummet. The Obama Biden administration caved to big pharma and allowed drug prices to explode.
The only bad part about this transaction is that they are advertising like crazy, “Make sure you don’t elect Trump.” All it means is that your drug prices are coming down. It’s incredible. They have unlimited money for ads, but they’re taking ads, and every time you see an ad, just think that your drug prices are coming down. I now understand why other politicians wouldn’t do it, because it was a very easy thing to do, but it took a certain amount of courage, I will say that.
It means that I’m taking on big pharma like never before. Nobody’s done this before. They understood favored nations. Favored nations is you get the best prices, the lowest, no matter where it is anywhere in the world. If Germany is paying 25 cents for a pill and we’re paying two and a half dollars for the same exact pill from the same place, same plant, same genius scientist, same everything, same laboratory, we get the same prices they do. You’re talking about numbers that are unthinkable, a favored nations clause. It’s really something. They’re attacking me viciously, we know that. They’re attacking me really because I’m fighting for you, but it’s worth the fight. It’s worth the fight. I think people are going to [crosstalk 00:16:26]. I can say this, I think. I don’t think it’s confidential. Our Chief of Staff is here, Mark Meadows, from a very great state known as North Carolina, that happens to come from North Carolina. That’s good stuff. He wanted to be here for that reason probably more than even listening to this because you’ve heard it, but Mark will tell you that big pharma is calling and negotiating and negotiating and they want to make a deal. There’s a deal somewhere, but it’s something that’s taking place right now. They’re negotiating, but this is where we are. They’re negotiating for one reason. Before that, they wouldn’t even think about negotiating with any other administration. They cannot believe this is actually happening. If we can make a deal, we will, but Mark, you’re negotiating literally as we speak, right? If he doesn’t make a great deal, we’ll blame North Carolina, okay? That’s great. No, Mark is a real pro at this, understands a complicated business, but he understands it very well.
Today, my administration’s taken action on every piece of the executive order I signed on prescription drug importation in July. The American people pay an average of over, listen to this, three times more for medicine than Canadians. You can be two feet away on each side of the border, three times more. That’s the way it is. Canada is far more than many other countries. My plan will allow states, wholesalers and pharmacies to do something career politicians have promised for decades because it was very simple as an idea, but never delivered. We will finally allow the safe and legal importation of prescription drugs from Canada. This means …
This means a state or whatever can go to Canada and buy your drugs for a fraction of the price that they’re charging right now. Massive numbers of tremendous numbers. Florida wants to do it, colorado wants to do it, many states want to do it, and they will be doing it, but that’s still higher than the favored nations. As favored nations kicks in, I think that probably beats everybody, no matter where you are, no matter where you’re trying to buy. This will be a game changer for American seniors. By allowing you to do this through Canada, we’re doing it very, very quickly. It goes very fast. The new rule goes into effect as of today. Is that fast enough? I think so. What are your thoughts?
My Congressman. The America First Healthcare Plan includes another historic provision to benefit our great seniors. Under my plan, 33 million Medicare beneficiaries will soon receive a card in the mail containing $200 that they can use to help pay for prescription drugs. Nobody’s seen this before. These cards are incredible. The cards will be mailed out in coming weeks. I will always take care of our wonderful senior citizens. Joe Biden won’t be doing this. This is also partially because of the tremendous money that we’re going to be saving with the favored nations and various other things that we’ve done.
We’ve approved more affordable generic drugs than any administration in history. I had no idea, but I have had many doctors, who I have great respect for by the way, come to me and I said, “Well, what’s the difference between this and this?” One is a very well-known name. One is just a pill in a bottle with no tag on it. They said, “Zero.” I said, “It must be a little bit better, right, the name?” Zero. Yet, the name brand will cost 5 and even 10 times more money than the generic. We’ve approved more generic drugs than anybody at a rapid pace too. We’re also requiring that low-income patients receive the benefits of government discounts, so on insulin and the EpiPen, that is a big deal. That is a big deal. Insulin is one of the most common medicines for seniors.
This is something that Seema worked on so hard. Insulin prices soared under the last administration like you wouldn’t believe, right Seema? Under my plan, hundreds of thousands of Medicare patients will see their insulin cost capped at just $35 a month. That’s a 66% cost reduction. This feature will be available on over 1,600 Medicare plans that seniors can begin signing up for starting October 1st. Under certain circumstances, Seema, it’s literally almost free. This insulin, which they were just ripping you on, is close to being free, even lower than the $35 a month. You did a fantastic job on that. Thank you very much. Seema would come to my office, “Sir, I have something so exciting.” She worked on that for a long time and getting that done, but it is exciting. If you need insulin, a lot of people were going without it. They just couldn’t afford it. Now they can definitely afford it.
We’ll accelerate our relentless effort to save seniors money on their premiums. Since I took office, we reduced Medicare part D premiums by 12%. Medicare advantage premiums are also down dramatically, a 44% reduction in North Carolina. That’s good. 43% lower in Pennsylvania, and a 54% lower price in Michigan. That’s something. We have them all over the country. All over the country, there are numbers just like that. We’ll ensure that all seniors pay the same price for the same service, whether at a hospital, a surgery center or a doctor’s office. This will save seniors billions and billions of dollars a year. We’re talking about the billions. It also saves our government a lot of money, but we’ll save our senior citizens billions of dollars a year, a fantastic job.
We’re putting into place, the largest package of saving for seniors of any administration in history. No administration is even close to what we’ve done. I’ve said it, having to do much more than even healthcare, there’s no administration in its first three and a half years that’s done anywhere close to the things we’ve done. I never even get criticized for saying it. That must mean it’s true, right, my Congressman or my great Senator? Under the Democrat plan, costs will skyrocket. Our seniors will lose the benefits they paid into their entire … I mean, they’ve been paying for their entire lives, tremendous amounts of money, all to finance socialism and open borders. I mean, we’re just helping other countries, countries that aren’t even friends of ours, but we help our friends and we help socialism all over the world. We hurt our people and we’re not doing that any longer.
As long as I’m president, no one will lay a hand on your Medicare. Your Medicare is going to be safe and it’s going to be solid.
The final pillar of America First Healthcare Plan is better care, that’s better care for American patients. The historic action I’m taking today includes the first ever executive order to affirm it is the official policy of the United States government to protect patients with pre-existing conditions. So we’re making that official. We’re putting it down in a stamp because our opponents, the Democrats, like to constantly talk about it. And yet pre-existing conditions are much safer with us than they are with them and now we have it affirmed. This is affirmed, signed and done. So we can put that to rest. They’ll say it anyway, because it’s disinformation, disinformation. Same thing goes for Social Security. You remember during the last campaign four years ago, they kept saying I was going to destroy Social Security. I made Social Security stronger, better. They will be the ones that destroy Social Security because they’re going to destroy our country. They will destroy our economy. So Social Security, nothing happened. I keep saying whatever happened to Social Security? Remember, he is going to immediately attack. No, just the opposite. Your Social Security is 100% with me, but it’s not 100% with them.
Any healthcare reform legislation that comes to my desk from Congress must protect the pre-existing conditions or I won’t sign it. And I made that pledge and I made that pledge last week, but now I’m making it in writing. We’re putting it down and we have it signed and we have it sealed.
The new Democrat lie is that they will cover pre-existing conditions, but in truth, the socialist takeover economic shutdowns that they talk about, if you look at this state, frankly, where you have Democrat governors, Democrat leaders, those states are in very, very bad shape with all of their shutdowns. Pennsylvania, you take a look at what’s going on in Pennsylvania with the shutdown. We just won a big court case where a judge, a great federal judge ruled it unconstitutional what they were doing. They’re hurting people. There’s damage on the other side of a shutdown, people don’t realize with suicides and drug use and all of the alcohol. It’s a terrible thing that happens. And Michigan’s another state, their shut down is very severe.
By the way, on November 4th, I’m sure everything will be open. They’ll announce on the evening of November 3rd that we’re opening up unless these unsolicited ballots don’t come in for weeks and weeks and weeks. They want them to come in over a long period of time. It’s going to be a very interesting day. November 3rd, it’s going to be a very interesting day. And coverage for illegal immigrants will collapse. Our economy will collapse under their system and make your healthcare system totally insolvent. You know that as great doctors and people that do this, you know that what they’re doing is socialized medicine and it’s not acceptable. It’s going to be a disaster in terms of quality and cost. It’ll ruin our country. Under their plan, you’ll lose your doctor again and you will lose your coverage. You will lose everything having to do with what we’re talking about on my watch. I will never let the radical left take away your healthcare. You’ll always have healthcare.
The America First Healthcare Plan will deliver another long awaited reform. We will put you in control of your own medical records. We’ll require doctors to make your records available electronically and you will own them and you’ll control them and they will be portable. And you’ll be able to work seamlessly with all of your medical providers. It’ll make your life a lot easier, much, much easier. The previous administration, led by sleepy Joe Biden, spent $35 billion and failed to get it done. You know that, $35 billion. Where they failed, we are delivering to give critically ill patients access to lifesaving treatment.
I also signed Right to Try. You know what Right to Try is. To me, Right to Try is so great. It’s so great. And what I think I’d like to do, I’ll do it really quickly. I’m going to run through just a quick list of accomplishments that we’ve done. And we’ve really become the healthcare party, the Republican party. And nobody knows that. The news doesn’t talk about it. But I’m going to just say, and it’s a list of things that we’ve done and it’ll go quickly. But I just thought I’d take it out and say I’d like to read that to the audience of professionals today. And this is just a partial list. We repealed the individual mandate, eliminated Obamacare’s health insurance, medical device and the Cadillac taxes. That’s a big deal.
People forget all of this. They said, “I wonder who did that? Could it have been Joe Biden?” He doesn’t know what it is. Expanded association health plans, increased availability of short term limited duration plans, expanded health reimbursement arrangements, big deal, lowered prescription drug prices. And you will see them at a level that you’ll never see this again. They will go down so low. And as I said, we had the largest annual decrease, we had the only decrease over a 52 year period. More generic prescriptions approved, saving America an estimated $2.6 billion in the first 18 months of the administration alone. So in 18 months we saved $2.6 billion with generic drugs. Signed four executive orders to lower prescription drug prices, signed legislation banning pharmacy gag clauses. Does that make sense to you?
I mean, what people were under or what even the pharmacists had to do was it made them… It was embarrassing to them. Took executive action to ensure price transparency in healthcare. That will be one of the biggest things and most people have no idea what it means. I said some people said that’s bigger than healthcare. Required hospitals to post standard prices on the internet, modernized and strengthened Medicare with more options, more benefits and lower premiums substantially. Improved kidney care, such a big deal, with more transplants and better treatment. Kidney care is so tough for people with a problem.
Very substantially lowered the price of insulin, as we said, for our seniors. Invested in advances in generic therapy for sickle cell disease, big thing, big thing, big, big thing.
Launched a $500 million initiative to find cures for childhood cancer, it’s $500 million. Combatted drug demand. We really went very, very strong on drug demand and the opioid crisis with expanded access to medication assisted treatment and lifesaving nalaxone, nalaxone.
Opioid prescribed decrease by over 35%. So if you look at the opioid, obviously, horror show, it decreased by over 35% since January of 2017. We’ve worked very, very hard on that. Launched findtreatment.gov to connect those with substance abuse disorder to treatment. We have an incredible situation, it’s findtreatment.gov. Passed Right to Try to give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures, where it hasn’t been approved yet by the FDA. Incredible. And by the way, you know what that has meant. We have had some examples of success on Right to Try that have been amazing. Launched an initiative to end AIDS, HIV/AIDS in America. We think in six years, it will be largely eradicated. Who would have ever thought? And this could have started two years before I got there, but they chose not to do it. But we have, and we’ve launched the initiative. It’s into its almost fourth year. And at the time we did it, it was going to be 10 years, at the end of 10 years. Now, six years, we’re already down to six. It will largely eradicate AIDS, HIV/AIDS in America. Who would’ve thought that? It’s incredible.
When I first I heard about it, I said, “Why wouldn’t they have started it early?” But they didn’t. Expanded access to telehealth, especially in rural and underserved areas, telehealth. Signed historic VA Choice legislation. That’s a big deal. That’s a big deal. It’s the real choice, not the weak choice, the very, very weak, the choice that didn’t mean anything. But it’s been a tremendous success. And we just got a 91% approval rating from our vets, the highest we’ve ever had by a lot.
And we also, while we’re at it, we signed the accountability, VA Accountability. That’s where people don’t love our vets, if they don’t take care of our vets, you couldn’t do anything about it. They’d have to live in hell with these vets, with the people that we’re supposed to be taking care of. And we have a thing called VA Accountability. They’re accountable now. If they don’t treat our vets great, if they don’t take care of our vets, if they don’t love our vets, our country, we can fire them. We can say, “You’re fired.” We can fire them. VA Accountability.
That’s a big thing. So VA Choice, VA Accountability. Took executive action to prevent veteran suicide and launched the 24 hour veteran hotline for suicide. And it’s really working. And signed the largest ever increase in childcare development block grants. Those are some of the things that we’ve done. We’ve done actually a lot more than that, but we have to get back to business here, right? Those are things that we’ve done. And nobody has any idea when you look at a list like that, Democrats have never done anything like that.
Under the Democrat socialist agenda, an avalanche of regulation would extinguish the flame of excellence that makes America the center of scientific discovery, groundbreaking treatment, and lifesaving cures. In our all-out war against the virus, we’ve lifted bureaucratic barriers and marshaled America’s scientific, industrial and technical brilliance. And we do have total brilliance, some of it’s in this room, by the way, in case you don’t know. I will apply a… brilliant, some of the people, right, Bill? Some incredible people in this room. I’ll apply the same determination to accelerate medical breakthrough…
… apply the same determination to accelerate medical breakthroughs in all areas, including for Alzheimer’s, diabetes, generic treatments for Sickle Cell disease, early detection of cancer, and much, much more. Already to improve care for Americans with kidney disease, we enabled patients to receive at-home dialysis and we’re investing in the creation of an artificial kidney. We’re getting very close. And we introduced critical incentives to make more kidneys available for transplant; a change that will save tens of thousands of lives. What people have to go through with kidney disease is incredible. It’s incredible. They work so hard. I said, “How do they do?”
They can live a long life, but it’s so much work to do it. That they literally, one doctor told me, that they die of hard work. It’s such a job to go and I guess, dialysis, et cetera. It’s such a hard job that they die of … Literally, they die of just hard work. It’s incredible what we’ve done there and what we’re doing. And especially with some of the research that’s been done, what we’re coming up with. You’ll be seeing it very soon, I believe. As we invest in the future, we will permanently bring our medical supply chains back home. We will produce our medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, and treatments right here in the United States, right here in North Carolina.
We are going to bring a lot of business too. If you remember, Puerto Rico used to do it, and then they brought tax legislation that destroyed that whole thing. They all left, but they were very happy in Puerto Rico. We’re going to bring it back to Puerto Rico and many of our states that will be doing it. And North Carolina I see is on the list as being a very top one, so we’re going to bring it back to North Carolina and the country. And we’ll reverse the disastrous and heartless decision Joe Biden made in 1996 to shut down the pharmaceutical industry in Puerto Rico. It took place in 1996, Biden shut down the whole Puerto Rico industry. This was a very good industry. They were doing a fantastic job. And one day it was just literally gone.
Biden shut it down with what he did with taxes. And it was a disgrace, but we will bring it back. Under our leadership, American medicine will make the biggest breakthroughs, the largest leaps, the most exciting strides and the most outstanding discoveries. Before I sign a historic executive order implementing this ambitious agenda, let me introduce two Americans, great Americans who will benefit from our policies. Julia [Stathopoulos 00:38:54] was born with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome, which is tough, an extremely rare muscle and bone disorder. Under the previous administration, Julia’s family saw their premiums on the individual market skyrocket to $3,000 a month and more.
Her parents had to go without health insurance just to afford coverage for their children. Since I was elected, their family’s premiums have been slashed by more than 40% and we’re going down further. Everyone is now covered and Julia always has access to the doctors she needs. Julia, we are with you. I don’t know where you are, Julia. Where is Julia? Wow. Thank you. Thank you. You look great, Julia. Thank you. That’s great. Thank you, Julia. It’s a great story, but we’re inspired by your courage. Thank you very much. Also with us is Sharon [Leader 00:03:58], a financial planner from nearby Concord. After spending less than 24 hours in the hospital and receiving a few basic tests, she received surprise bills that added up to $4,000. That’s a lot of money. Despite having insurance.
Sharon, those days will soon be over because we’ll end surprise medical billing once and for all. Where is Sharon? Hi, Sharon. It’s why they call it surprise billings, she got home and she was surprised. They sent you the bill, you opened it up. You thought it was going to be $25. And it was a little more than that, right? That’s great. Well, we’re taking care of it. Thank you very much here. We’re standing up for our people. We’re standing up to special interests. We’re taking on the powerful lobbyists. We’re stopping the radical socialists and communists, to be honest with you. I think we’ve gone a little bit above socialism or below it, if you want to call it that way.
But we are standing up to both, whichever one you want to choose. And we are fighting for the incredible people of North Carolina, incredible people. People I love. I love the people. We named it … As you know, my grandchild is named, Carolina. Beautiful Carolina, the most beautiful child. But we’re providing better care and more choice at a lower cost, substantially lower cost. We’re delivering a healthier, safer, brighter, and more prosperous future for every citizen in our magnificent land, because we are proudly putting America first. It hasn’t happened for a long time. On behalf of all Americans, I will now sign the executive order. I want to thank you all for being here. God bless you, God Bless North Carolina and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
That’s a lot of work [inaudible 00:42:20]. That’s great. Hi, Julia.
Hello.
Well, thank you very much, please. Thank you very much. And I’m delighted to welcome you to the White House as we honor the Cuban-American veterans of the Bay of Pigs invasion, brave people, great people. I was honored to receive the endorsement of the Bay of Pigs Veterans Association in 2016. And they gave me a beautiful award and I have it very proudly on a wall of great importance to me. And I just understood that once again, I’ve received your official endorsement and support and I very much thank you for that. Thank you all very much. That’s a great honor. It’s a great honor.
Today, we reaffirm our ironclad solidarity with the Cuban people and our eternal conviction that freedom will prevail over the sinister forces of communism and evil of many different forms. 60 years ago, the Cuban Patriots formed Brigade 2506 in a daring effort to liberate their homeland from the communist Castro regime. Today, we declare America’s unwavering commitment to a free Cuba, and you will have that. You will have that very soon. We’re glad to be joined.
They will have it, Mike, won’t they? It’s happening very fast actually. We’re glad to be joined by Vice-President Mike Pence and you know what I’d like to do. I’d like to have Mike come up, say a few words. He’s very much wedded to what you are believers in. He believes in Cuba and he believes in a lot of help for you. So, Mike, please come up and say a few words.
Thank you, Mr. President. It’s a privilege to join you today amongst so many heroes. 23 heroic veterans of Brigade 2506. As you said, Mr. President, April 1961 with American support brigade 2506, landed on the beaches along the Bay of Pigs, vastly outnumbered by Castro’s socialist forces. 1,200 were captured. America secured the release of nearly all of the prisoners 20 months later but the last prisoner was not released until 1986. And upon his arrival in Miami history records that he said, “I am grateful to be in the land of freedom.”
This fall, Mr. President, you’ll also mark 40 years since the conclusion of the Mariel boatlift, when 125,000 Cubans fled socialism for freedom here in America. And I’m proud to stand with you, Mr. President because President Donald Trump believes this is a hemisphere of freedom and we will always stand for freedom.
Mr. President you’ve taken strong action to stand for freedom in Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. And today with the new sanctions that you’ll be announcing at this event, you will confirm that in this White House, it will always be Que Viva Cuba Libre. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much, Michael. We appreciate it. And it’s great. And I know that all of the great people that I just met that love Cuba so much, they appreciate your help very much. They so stated. And thank you as well to Deputy Secretary of State Steven [inaudible 00:00:04:05]. Thank you very much. Ambassador to the organization of American States, Carlos Trujillo. Carlos, thank you very much. And a friend of mine, a great gentleman, just recovered from a very serious bout, but he is strong. There’s nothing going to take him down. Mario Diaz Balart. Mario, thank you Mario. Great job. Mario’s Great and I know you’re a thousand percent and you did it fast. You’re strong. You’re very strong, Mario. Anthony Gonzalez, great football player, by the way, great, great football player. All the way through the NFL. That’s great. And we got Ohio State going. We have the whole Big 10. We got that done, didn’t we, Anthony? And you helped. And I appreciate it. Thank you very much. And Alex Mooney, Alex thank you very much. Thank you Alex.
I also want to recognize Maricio Klaver Carone who has just been elected as the first American to lead the Inter-American Development Bank. That’s big stuff. He’s been my friend and he agrees with what I said. And when I talked to you about Venezuela, it was much different than the so-called experts. The experts that have been talking about it for 20 years and nothing happens. And when I talked about Cuba, much different and my friend would get up and say, “The only one that’s been right about this for two years is President Trump.” Hence he’s heading this big bank now. It’s amazing. See if you say nice things about the president that’s what happens, but congratulations, you deserve it. You’re going to be fantastic. Thank you very much.
This milestone underscores our historic partnerships across Latin America. On April 17th, 1961, the 1,400 Cuban exiles of brigade 206, landed at the Bay of Pigs. They were met by fierce airstrikes by heavy fire, very, very heavy and 20,000 soldiers from the Castro regime. These brave warriors fought three grueling days. The brutal Castro regime imprisoned them for 20 months until the United States negotiated their release. Today were profoundly honored by their presence. We’re joined by these 20 incredible veterans, Brigade, 2506 and their families. Could I ask you to stand please? Because [inaudible 00:06:41] that’s great. You’re looking good, too. Looking good. Wow. That’s great. Good looking people in Cuba. That’s a good looking group. I appreciate you being here. This is tremendous. It’s an honor. You’ve been honoring me for four years and now I’m honoring you and that’s a nice way to do it.
[inaudible 00:07:13] the next four years.
Well, thank you very much. No, we really appreciate it. We will honor your courage with my Administration’s determination to defeat communism and socialism. And we will do that in our own country, too. We’re in the process of doing it right now, and it has stepped, in my opinion, beyond the word socialism. And we are meeting it with great force. My Administration stands with every citizen of Cuba and Nicaragua and Venezuela in their fight for liberty. And we work for the day when this will become a fully free hemisphere and it will be for the first time in human history, a fully free hemisphere, and we will have it. We will have it, and it’s going to happen. It’s going to happen sooner rather than later, a lot of things are going on right now that I can tell you about, but I will be soon.
The Obama-Biden administration made a weak, pathetic, one-sided deal with a Castro dictatorship that betrayed the Cuban people and enrich the communist regime. I canceled the Obama-Biden sellout to the Castro regime. We will not lift sanctions until all political prisoners are freed, freedoms of assembly and expression are respected, all political parties are legalized and free elections are scheduled. They will have to go through a lot, but things are happening. And it’s very interesting to see the level at which they’re happening. Earlier this year, we also demanded the release of human rights activists, Jose Daniel Ferrer. Today as part of our continuing fight against communist oppression, I am announcing that the treasury department will prohibit U.S. travelers from staying at properties owned by the Cuban government.
We’re also further restricting the importation of Cuban alcohol and Cuban tobacco. These actions will ensure that U.S. dollars do not fund the Cuban regime and go directly to the Cuban people. Big difference, big difference, really. We’re also imposing strict sanctions on the dictatorships of Nicaragua and Venezuela. We brought criminal charges against Maduro for his narco-terrorism. The courageous veterans here today bear witness to how socialism, radical mobs, and violent communists ruined the nation. Now the Democrat party is unleashing socialism, right within our own beautiful country. Today, we proclaim that America will never be a socialist or communist country, and I’m going to add that word. [inaudible 00:10:19].
First time I’ve ever said that. I’ve never added the other word, but I think it’s appropriate, mike, when you look at the kind of ideology we’re also facing. When you see the rioters, looters, anarchists, and then you see the press, the media play right into their hands. It’s so sad to see the media, the way they’re being used. The media is being used like fools, they’re being used. And it’s very sad to watch but we will prevail. It’s the first time I’ve said that though, socialism and communism. We did not fight tyranny abroad only to let Marxists destroy our beloved country. Together, we will defend our freedom and our American way of life, and we will defend it strongly and successfully as we’ve been doing. Then as we celebrate Hispanic heritage month, we give thanks to the countless ways that Hispanic-Americans uplift and inspire our nation.
They’ve been so good to me. And I must tell you that the big story is the poll numbers. Trump has gone through the roof with the poll numbers from Hispanics. They’re all talking about it. I just watched something and read a couple of articles and they don’t know what’s happening. I guess they didn’t know I love you, but I do. They’re incredible people, incredible people. They knew it, but they were all shocked. Hasn’t been a time when something like this has happened. Nearly 60,000 Hispanic-Americans serve as police officers. More than 300,000 Hispanic-Americans serve in the military. Over half of the border patrol agents are Hispanic and they’re incredible. I’ve gotten to know so many of them, they’re incredible. More than three million Hispanic-owned small businesses provide jobs for millions of Americans. They’re fabulous business people. Hispanic Americans teach their children to love our country, honor our history and respect our great American flag. Hispanic Americans embody the American dream and my administration is delivering for you that American dream like nobody has ever delivered for the Hispanic-Americans. And hopefully for everybody else.
We implemented the historic tax cuts, regulation cuts. And I recently created the Hispanic Prosperity Initiative to expand economic opportunity. Before the China virus, we achieved the lowest Hispanic-American unemployment rate ever recorded in our country, it’s not even close. Last year, Hispanic-American poverty reached an all-time low. We built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. We closed it up. We saved millions and millions of lives, and now we opened it up and you’ve been hearing about the V. We have a V, we may have a super V and it’s coming back fast. We’re going to have a very good third quarter. That’ll be announced just prior to the election. So I’m putting myself at risk when I say that, because if it’s not good. You can imagine there’ll be playing what I just said.
They won’t say that I’m here representing the Hispanic-Americans or Cubans or anything else. They’ll just say, “Look what he said,” but I’m willing to take that chance. We’re going to have a great third quarter. And next year is going to be one of the greatest economic years we’ve ever had. We feel very confident based on everything. In the last four months, 3.3 million Hispanic-Americans were hired to fill new jobs, a record. I’ve taken bold action to defend the right to religious Liberty and the right to life. We are protecting school choice for over one million Hispanic-American students, such a big deal. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every family in America. We want every American to have a limitless future. Here with us, today is Bay of Pigs veteran Umberto Cortina. Where’s Umberto? Stand up. Come on up. Who founded a small business in Miami and was elected to the Florida State House. Umberto, say a few words.
Thank you, Sir.
Good, please be careful. I don’t want you falling on me. You’ll never, you’ll never be the same if you fall-
No, no.
You know if you fall, they’ll never let you forget.
No, but the-
No matter how good you speech.
… all of them I know.
Umberto, no matter how good your speech, it won’t matter, right? Please, you’ll have a good one.
Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the freedom fighters of the Brigade 2506, for the opportunity of being here with you today. I was wounded during the Bay of Pigs invasion. As a result, the bullets cut the sciatic nerve on both of my legs, and I was not able to walk for two years. When I returned from Castro’s prison, I joined the United States Army with a presidential officer appointment. I felt very honored, very honored to serve in the armed forces of our great country. And I always believed that even though we lost that battle, the war against socialism and communism continues now as it did then. After my service in the U.S Army, I graduated from the University of Florida. I’m a Gator, Mr. President. I’m a Gator, I’m a Gator. And for five years, I worked as the regional director of the Council of the Americas in Latin America, where I realized the importance of communication, our values, and the opportunities that this great country offers.
In 1982, I was one of the first Cuban-Americans elected to the State of Florida House of Representatives. I have a couple here that… Earlier, maybe later, don’t remember. And what I learned there was a good and strong leadership means. And as a small businessman for 20 years, I appreciate the opportunities that this country extends to everyone who puts the time and effort to achieve the American dream, regardless of where you come from. And as a father and grandfather, I appreciate your leadership, Mr. President, and your vision for the future. And I look forward to your presidency for the next four years.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, sir. Thank you.
Thank you, Umberto, very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. That’s great. Thank you very much Umberto. Mario, would you please come up and say a couple of words, please? Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for inviting a group of heroes who have never stopped fighting for freedom, for their homeland of Cuba, and for freedom and opportunity in the United States. Thank you for inviting these heroes. And Mr. President the cause of a free Cuba, the cause of a free Venezuela, of a free Nicaragua, of a free hemisphere, has never had a stronger ally, a stronger leader than this president. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
Thank you Mario, very much. It’s my honor. And it’s my honor, thank you very much. Also with us today is Colonel Johnny Lopez de la Cruz, I love that name. President of the Bay of Pigs Veterans Association who was so nice to me four years ago, who went on to serve for 27 years in the United States military. Johnny, please come up, please.
What an honor. Mr. President, on behalf of the members and families of the Brigade 2506, I would like to express our gratitude for the invitation to join you at the White House. It’s quite an honor. Today, we are celebrating the freedoms that we have and want to preserve. We’re here because we share your commitment to conservative principles, individual freedom, the rule of law, and racial equality. We particularly value your support for our troops and veterans and the restoration of the military might of this nation while brokering peace agreements and avoiding conflicts and endless wars.
You have kept your promises. You are supporting freedom and human rights in this hemisphere while applying severe sanctions to the regimes of Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. And we urge you to continue these policies and the efforts to read the world of this communist, corrupt narco-terrorist regimes. Cuba, must again be free after 60 years of communism. People are suffering there as well as in Venezuela and Nicaragua. Mr. President, thank you from the bottom of our heart. For this splendid and emotional recognition that you have vested on the veterans of the Bay of Pigs invasion, Brigade 2506. God bless you. And God bless America.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. The veterans we honor today are a powerful testament to all that a free people can achieve. In the past six decades, you have built strong families, thriving businesses, and vibrant communities. Today, we thank God for the blessings we share as citizens of the greatest country on earth, and we hope, pray and work for the day when the people of Cuba can finally reclaim their glorious destiny. It will happen soon. Thank you and God bless America. Thank you very much.
It is my profound honor to address the United Nations General Assembly 75 years after the end of World War II and the founding of the United Nations, we are once again, engaged in a great global struggle. We have waged a fierce battle against the invisible enemy, the China virus, which has claimed countless lives in 188 countries. In the United States, we launched the most aggressive mobilization since the second world war, we rapidly produced a record supply of ventilators, creating a surplus that allowed us to share them with friends and partners all around the globe. We pioneered lifesaving treatments, reducing our fatality rate 85% since April. Thanks to our efforts, three vaccines are in the final stage of clinical trials. We are mass producing them in advance so they can be delivered immediately upon arrival, we will distribute a vaccine. We will defeat the virus. We will end the pandemic and we will enter a new era of unprecedented prosperity, cooperation and peace.
As we pursue this bright future, we must hold accountable the nation, which unleashed this plague onto the world, China. In the earliest days of the virus, China locked down travel domestically while allowing flights to leave China and infect the world. China condemned my travel ban on their country. Even as they canceled domestic flights and locked citizens in their homes, the Chinese government and the World Health Organization, which is virtually controlled by China, falsely declared that there was no evidence of human to human transmission. Later they falsely said people without symptoms would not spread the disease, the United Nations must hold China accountable for their actions. In addition, every year, China dumps millions and millions of tons of plastic and trash into the oceans, over fishes other countries waters, destroys vast swaths of coral reef and admits more toxic mercury into the atmosphere than any country, anywhere in the world.
China’s carbon emissions are nearly twice what the US has and it’s rising fast. By contrast, after I withdrew from the one sided Paris Climate Accord, last year, America reduced its carbon emissions by more than any country in the agreement, those who attack America’s exceptional environmental record while ignoring China’s rampant pollution are not interested in the environment. They only want to punish America and I will not stand for it. If the United Nations is to be an effective organization, it must focus on the real problems of the world. This includes terrorism, the oppression of women, forced labor, drug trafficking, human and sex trafficking, religious persecution, and the ethnic cleansing of religious minorities. America will always be a leader in human rights. My administration is advancing religious liberty, opportunity for women, the decriminalization of homosexuality, combating human trafficking and protecting unborn children. We also know that American prosperity is the bedrock of freedom and security all over the world.
In three short years, we built the greatest economy in history and we are quickly doing it again. Our military has increased substantially in size. We spent $2.5 trillion over the last four years on our military. We have the most powerful military anywhere in the world, and it’s not even close. We stood up to decades of China’s trade abuses. We revitalize the NATO Alliance where other countries are now paying a much more fair share. We forged historic partnerships with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to stop human smuggling. We are standing with the people of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom. We withdrew from the terrible Iran nuclear deal and imposed crippling sanctions of the world’s leading state sponsor of terror. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, killed its founder and leader Al-Baghdadi and eliminated the world’s top terrorists Qasem Soleimani. This month we achieved a peace deal between Serbia and Kosovo.
We reached a landmark breakthrough with two peace deals in the middle East after decades of no progress, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain all signed a historic peace agreement in the White House with many other middle Eastern countries to come. They are coming fast and they know it’s great for them, and it’s great for the world. These groundbreaking peace deals at the dawn of the new Middle East, by taking a different approach, we have achieved different outcomes, far superior outcomes. We took an approach and the approach worked. We intend to deliver more peace agreements shortly, and I have been more optimistic for the future of the region. There is no blood in the sand. Those days are hopefully over. As we speak, the United States is also working to end the war in Afghanistan. And we are bringing our troops home. America is fulfilling our destiny as peacemaker, but it is peace through strength.
We are stronger now than ever before. Our weapons are at an advanced level like we’ve never had before, like frankly, we’ve never even thought of having before. And I only pray to God that we never have to use them. For decades, the same tired voices proposed the same failed solutions, pursuing global ambitions at the expense of their own people. But only when you take care of your own citizens, would you find a true basis for cooperation. As president, I have rejected the failed approaches of the past, and I am proudly putting America first, just as you should be putting your countries first. That’s okay. That’s what you should be doing. I am supremely confident that next year when we gather in person, we will be in the midst of one of the greatest years in our history, and frankly, hopefully in the history of the world. Thank you, God bless you all. God bless America. And God bless the United Nations.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Well thank you very much, Ohio. Thank you very much. Thank you. You know, this is really not a rally, you know this, this has to do with workers, programs, all the things we love, but this is really, we call it a friendly protest. And you know what we’re protesting? We’re protesting stupidity. Because there’s so many stupid things you see here. But hello, I’ll tell you what Ohio, how good have you been? How good have you been? What did we win by? A lot. And your governor’s here, and he just said you’re winning by a lot more this time than last time. So that’s good. Thank you. Mike, thank you very much. But hello, Ohio. And thank you very much. I’m thrilled to be here in Dayton, the home of the Wright Brothers, wow. I wonder what they would think when they see some of these F-35s and these crazy planes that we make nowadays that go thousands of miles an hour, right? I wonder.
But I want to just thank the very hard working patriots who are the backbone of America. You really are. You’re the backbone of America. This is an amazing group of people. This is an amazing group. You know, I’m going to another very nice spot in Ohio where we do have a rally, but I can’t imagine you have many more people than we have here, but they will, about 10 times more. No, this is for us and our friends and workers. We want workers. 43 days from now, We are going to win this state. We are going to win four more years in the White House. That’s true.
Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.
Thank you. Thank you. You had your best year in the history of your state and the history of our country last year. And we had it until the plague came in, and now we’re building it up again rapidly, but you had the best year, and we’re going to have… next year will be the best year we’ve ever had. I believe that. You’ll see that in the third quarter. But we’re here today to talk about jobs. We’re talking about jobs, a very favorite subject of mine to know and to understand that the choice in November is going to be very simple. There’s never been a time where there’s such a difference. One is probably communism. I don’t know. They keep saying socialism. I think they’re gone. They’ve got over that one, that one’s passed already. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years shipping your jobs to China, and foreign countries. You know that.
Boo.
And I’ve spent the last four years bringing the jobs back to our country, and back to Ohio. On November 3rd, Americans will decide whether we lift our nation to soaring new heights of prosperity, or whether we will allow a Joe Biden, Sleepy Joe, to shut down our economy, impose a four trillion, that’s with a T, by the way, $4 trillion tax hike, abolish Ohio clean coal, oil, natural gas, and ship your jobs and factories and dreams overseas to China and countries that you’ve never even heard of. Put simply, if Biden wins, China wins. If we win, Ohio wins, and most importantly, in all fairness, America wins. Because you finally have a president who puts America first. And I do put America first. I guess that’s why almost four years ago, that’s why I did this, right? It’s because of this, probably more than any other reason. I watched the jobs going out. I never saw anything so stupid in my life. I watched the worst trade deals, and we’ve reversed many of them, almost all of them now, but we’ve reversed them.
And again, we were having the greatest year we’ve ever had, and it’s going to be back very soon. You take a look at what’s happening. We’re joined today by a real good friend of mine. Somebody that’s been with me from the beginning. And I’ve been with him from the beginning, Ohio Governor, Mike DeWine. Where’s Mike? Where’s Mike? He’s opening up. Where’s Mike? Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mike. He’s a good man. And Lieutenant governor John Euston. Good guys. Yeah. Thanks John. Good job. Congressman Warren Davidson, do you know Warren? Wow. Warren, that’s very impressive. These are real warriors. I’ll tell you another one, Mike Turner. Do we know Mike? Hell of a lawyer. Thank you, Mike. Thanks for all the help too, both of you, really appreciate it. And a man, I don’t know if you know him. He should become legendary, because when we didn’t have a lot of support, I had a guy named Bob Paduchik, do you know Bob? He kept saying, every time I said, “You know, we’re not getting the kind of support from the top people.” He said, “That’s okay, sir, you went up another two points.”
We won this state by a lot. Remember the fake news. It’s a lot of it back there too, a lot of fake news. But they were going around Mike, hey Mike, they were going around saying, “Well, Trump may not be able to, in order to when you have to win Ohio, right? And then for a year, I heard, “You cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio.” But they didn’t say the great state, I say the great state. And I heard it. I heard it for so long. It would be impossible. And then we won that night by what? Nine points? What was it Bob? Nine points. We won by a lot. In fact, it was the first indication that that was going to be a tough night for the Democrats. They said, “Ladies and gentlemen, not only did Trump win Ohio, he won by a hell of a lot more than we anticipated.” And then we won, look at these guys. That’s why I love these guys. Look at this. Nobody’s messing with these guys. You know, they’re great workers, but we use them also for security. If everyone gets a little bit rough, you’ll take care, right fellas? Thank you very much. Thank you. But we won it big, and that was the beginning of one of the most exciting nights in history, because we did something in 2016 that was amazing. And I’ll tell you, honestly, there is more enthusiasm now, and this is fact. In fact, they have a new thing. First of all, you know, we’re working very hard on getting a third Supreme Court Justice. I’m going to announce who that is. The only thing I’ll say, for the women, it will be a woman. Uh oh. There are a lot of angry people. Okay. Here’s the question. Okay. It will be a woman. Does anybody here, please raise your hand if you have the courage, is there anybody here that insists that it will be and should be a man? Is there anybody with the courage, please put up your hand right now. A lot of women here.
So, okay. Ready? Supreme Court Justice, most powerful, most important, just the most important, you know, when you become president, they say, “This is the single most important thing a president does, is pick Supreme Court… ” And by the way, by the end of the first term, we will have 300 federal judges, a record. So let’s give me a free poll. We do this, I have such fun with it. We do it. Give me a free poll. If they go out, they charge hundreds of thousands of dollars. They interview like 19 people, which mean nothing. Here we got a lot of people. So give me a free poll, who would like to see a woman Justice of the Supreme Court. Who would like to see a male Justice of the Supreme Court. The only one I hear there is women. Some women. What’s that all about? No, it will be a brilliant person. It will be, I have five that we’re vetting right now. It’ll be a brilliant person. It will be a woman. It will be a woman. And we’re looking forward to it.
And it will probably announce it on Saturday, maybe Friday, but Saturday. And it’s a big day for our country. It’s a big day for you. It’s a big day for Ohio. And so I think it will be great. I always love, why’d you say that? Like big day for Ohio, and I do it somewhat routinely. Do you ever notice when Biden goes out, and he always picks the wrong location. Like if he’s in Ohio, it’s great to be in the state of Florida. And he looks around, and he doesn’t see too many palm trees. He says, “Are we in Florida?” “No, you’re not.” He did that seven times. How do you do that? When you do that, you just walk off the stage. It’s over. There’s nothing you can do. You can make the greatest remainder of the speech, there’s nothing you can do to save it. But the people of Dayton know better than anyone, the terrible damage that Biden has inflicted over his nearly 50 years, 47 years to be exact. Can you believe it? For 47 years, Joe Biden shook the hands of American workers, and then stabbed them in the back.
He said, “Washington vultures.” I mean, think of it, all over, and they raked in cash. They raked in big money. Where’s his son? Where is he? Where’s his son? I’ll tell you. Where is he? What did I say, “Where is,” Where is he? Go ahead. You know, we did that for fun. Where’s Hunter? We did a t-shirt. That thing sold, we come up with these little gems. Where’s Hunter? You know where he is? Yeah. He’s in the basement with his father. Where’s Hunter? No, Hunter did very well. He had no job, he was thrown out of the military, he was thrown out. He had no job. And then he goes to Ukraine, and he gets $183,000 a month. Although he had no experience whatsoever, knew nothing about the subject of the company, which you know, was energy. I think they got an upfront payment of three million…
… energy. I think they got an upfront payment of three million just to be able to get them. Think of that, $183,000 a month and three million dollar upfront payment. How about that? I’d take that one myself. Then they go to China, he walks out with one point five billion to manage, which is millions of dollars a year. The whole thing is crazy and the fake news doesn’t want to cover it. They don’t want to cover it. Did you see the interview the other day with Anderson Cooper, the other night? That was softball, that was like, “Here, Joe.” So we’ll see. We have a debate coming up and who knows, look he’s been doing this … You know what, he’s been doing it for 47 years. I’ve been doing it for three and a half years, so he should be able to beat me I would think, he’s much more experienced. He’s great, oh, he’s a beauty. But he betrayed you, he lied to you, he abused you, which is why it’s time to retire Joe Biden, this is serious stuff. Do we have any Teamsters here? Teamsters, any Teamsters here? That’s all? One. All right, well, I did a big favor for the Teamsters, they had trucking company. I think 30,000 jobs going out. James Hoffa called up, “Could you help? Could you help? Could you help?” I helped, I kept that company going. They saved 30,000 jobs, but then every year they always endorse the Democrat, doesn’t matter, good or bad. And James Hoffa, I’m so disappointed in that guy. So I called, I said, “I’d love to get their support.” “Oh, I’m sorry, sir. They’ve already endorsed sleepy Joe Biden.” It’s like automatic, but you know who doesn’t endorse him, all the workers underneath and they’ll either throw him out or he’ll retire. He’ll retire. You get tired of it, it’s like automatic. They endorse the Democrat because the Democrats do whatever the hell they want. But the workers, the people underneath, the real people, they’re with us all the way.
I’ve hired thousands and thousands of Teamsters, all the concrete work on buildings in Manhattan. But they just like wedded. It’s almost like a habit. I consider it a habit and I think it’s disgraceful. But I saved this company, a big company, good company, great people. We saved it. And then you say unrelated, totally unrelated, “Hey, we’d love to have you.” “Well, I’m sorry, it’s already done.” These people are terrible, but that’s all right. You always have to remember things. Remember, you got to remember, right workers? On November 3rd, we must turn the page forever on the failed corrupt political class. That’s what it is. They get so much things that are so unfair to the rest of our country and that’s why they’re always with that top level of Democrat but the workers are with us.
Biden is a diehard globalist. Globalists are out, you know that right? Globalist destroyed, they helped destroy this country. I’ll tell you if I didn’t come along, I really mean it. This country was, it was going down and we stopped it. If you look at your Second Amendment, if you look at so many different things, no matter what it is. You look at our jobs, our jobs prior to the plague and now coming back. The housing is record setting. Car manufacturing is record setting. You take a look at car sales are record setting. Retailing, who would think retail is record setting. It’s amazing because we had such a good foundation. We closed it up, we saved millions of lives. We had no choice, we had to do that. And then we opened it and now we’re rocking and it’s going good. It’s really going good.
But the Democrats really waged war on the American workers for half a century. Look what they’ve done. Biden’s policies destroyed 60,000 factories and killed four point, think of it, four point five million manufacturing jobs. We brought back 700,000 when they said, right, they said the magic wand, you can’t do it, manufacturing jobs are gone. I said, “Really? I don’t think so.” Biden championed the NAFTA disaster and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which was a total catastrophe. That’s when China started going up like a rocket. They’re considered in the world trade, they’re considered a developing nation. No, they’re not a developing nation. By being a developing nation they get all sorts of advantages over us. So we’ve been protesting it and we do things that you wouldn’t believe. You don’t even want to hear about it because it’s disgraceful. China is a developing nation. And therefore for years and years, they had big advantages over the United States but no more.
What followed was the nothing short, and think of it, nothing short of a blue collar carnage and it was in Ohio and Pennsylvania, and North Carolina, New Hampshire, Michigan. You know how many car plants we’re bringing back to Michigan. Nobody’s ever seen it. For 40 years, they didn’t build a plant. And now they’re building them all over. And I tell countries, I told a great gentleman, he just retired, Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I said, “Shinzo, you got to build plants here, you can’t do this. You’re building your cars in Japan and sending them. We want our cars built here. We want cars built here.” He said, “Well, that’s not up to me, that’s up to the company.” “That’s all right, Shinzo, I know you can do it.” The next day they announced five plants, I mean, what can I tell you?
I know my people, it’s up to Shinzo, it wasn’t up to anybody else, but he’s great. The workers of America will never forget Biden’s economic treachery. They will remember in November after Biden betrayed and think of it, all the betrayals on NAFTA and China, 40% of all of the manufacturing jobs were shipped out of Dayton. And now the good thing is your roads, you didn’t have a lot of traffic. So that’s the good news, everything else was bad, right? It was everything else was bad. 30,000 Dayton families saw their jobs disappear overnight. By 2016, the per capita income in Dayton had fallen 12% below the national average of $50,000. Remember this, this all happened … I mean, these numbers are incredible what’s happened in three years. Ohio lost one in three manufacturing jobs, two out of three iron and steel mill jobs. And half of its auto jobs, courtesy of Joe Biden and that crew, that group, that whole ideology.
And now of course his ideology has changed. He’s so far left that he is … just so you understand, he has no choice. It’s not him. He’s being pulled left. You see where Kamala, Kamala, she another great one that one. You see her poll numbers, her poll numbers were going down and I can’t … nobody treated him worse than Kamala, right? And she said the Harris administration and working with Joe Biden, did you see that? But he said worse, he said the Harris, right, he said the Harris, Biden administration. And I heard that, I actually heard that live, although it’s not real live, I’ll tell you. It’s sort of half gone, it’s shot, it’s shot. But he said the Harris, Biden administration will … and that’s where it is. Look, this guy is shot. I mean, if he makes it, it’s going to be … I’m going to come back to Dayton and I’m going to say what the hell happened?
I will have lost to the worst presidential candidate in the history of politics. I really believe that. The guy can’t speak without the teleprompter, although I’m telling you, I’m telling you, I think … she says [inaudible 00:27:10]. I hope you’re right. I hope you’re … Thank you. I hope you’re right. I tell you the country can’t afford it. One thing I’ve learned is that President Xi of China, President Putin of Russia, Kim Jong-un, North Korea, every one of these leaders, they’re not shot. And we can’t have somebody that’s sleepy. We can’t have a sleepy guy negotiating. Oh, would they like to see him though? Did you see, would they like to see Joe? It’s their dream to see Joe. How about Iran, you think around might like to see Joe Biden? They’d go back, they say give me another $150 billion. We gave them 150 billion. We gave them one point eight billion in cash. You know what that looks like, one point eight billion in cash?
And I’ll tell you what, if and when we win, we will get a call within about nine seconds after the victory and it’ll be Iran, it’s going to want to make a deal. We want them to make a deal. We want them to be good. We want them to be strong. They just can’t have a nuclear weapon. That’s all, it’s very simple. You can’t have a nuclear weapon. But I told people, I said, “Don’t talk to them now, look, they want to wait.” This is the gift. If they could do that, if China could do it, I mean, think of it. If Russia could do it, by the way, nobody’s been tougher on Russia than me with the sanctions. With the … I exposed, right, Nord Stream 2, that’s the pipeline. No, you never heard of Nord Stream until I came along.
I said to Germany, let me get this straight. We defend Germany, right? We defend Germany and that’s it. They don’t pay what they’re supposed to pay, they’re delinquent, they’re delinquent. So I said to Angela and I like Angela, but I said, but she’s smart, why should she pay if she doesn’t have to. So I said, “Angela, so we defend you against Russia and you pay billions of dollars to Russia. How does that work? Explain to me what’s that all about?” But you never heard about that stuff. We’d give tank busters to Ukraine. We sell them in theory, I don’t know if we’ll ever get the money. We sell them. But he gave pillows, maybe he got them from Mike Lindell, the pillow man. You think when Obama sent pillows over to Ukraine, I send tank busters, they sent pillows. And the fake news goes, oh. Let me tell you, we have been very rough but at the same time we get along. I like Putin, he likes me. We get along. Wouldn’t you say it’s smart to get along, okay, it’s smart.
I get along or I got along with President Xi, but I don’t know, after what happened here I’m having a hard time with China, I really am. They’re buying a lot, the trade deal has been incredible. They have been living up to it in all fairness. The largest order of corn in the history of our country, largest order of soybeans, largest cattle order. But it means less now, you understand. If we wouldn’t have been hit with this pandemic, which they could’ve stopped, it would have meant a lot. But it just means a lot less to me right now. So now after selling you out and bleeding you dry, Biden is back asking for your vote. The guy, when he was in prime time, which for him was about halftime. Long time ago, I had a friend, a senator, a Democrat, believe it or not. I used to get along with Democrats very well, actually better than the Republicans, but I won’t say that.
But I asked him, “Who’s your smartest senator?” And he gave me a name. This is 25 years ago. I said, “Who’s your dumbest Senator?” “Joe.” “Who’s Joe?” “Joe Biden.” Oh, I see, he is, really?” “Yeah, he’s the dumbest senator.” Well, now he’s a lot dumber than it used to be, I can tell you. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true. And you can take the gloves up because they do all this disinformation, they make up phony stuff. Like the military with what he said, I think it’s a disgrace and he should apologize. A source said. I have 27 people that said, no way, it didn’t happen. They said … and the names are out there. So when they do that, you take the gloves off, that’s all. Really dishonest people, dishonest people. No, it’s a disgrace.
And nobody’s done for the military what I’ve done. We’ve totally rebuilt our military. We’ve made it stronger than ever. We have the greatest weapons in the world. We’ve gotten raises for our great warriors. Our vet just got a 91% approval rating, the highest in the history of the V.A., our vets. They gave it a 91, the V.A., gave it a 91% approval rating. Nobody’s done more, nobody. And we do. We have weapons, the likes of which nobody’s ever seen before. Hope to God we don’t have to use them but nobody has them. Not China, not Russia, nobody has the weaponry that we have. We have the greatest weapons in the world and hopefully don’t have to use them. Just remember that, we have the … I call it the super-duper missiles, like at a level that nobody’s ever seen before. You don’t see them either. They go through here, they say, “Boy, what happened? What was that? It’s gone. It’s here. There it is. I hear a noise over there. Where is it? It’s gone but it’s over there.”
But it’s a hydrosonic. I call it super-duper, because super-duper is easier for people to understand then hydrosonic. But we have the greatest … two point five trillion dollars we spent. The greatest weapons in the world. The greatest weapons that this world has ever seen without a question, I don’t have to say what they are. In fact, the fake news said, “He just gave away classified information.” I said, “No, I just said we have the greatest weapons. I didn’t tell you what they are.” I could, because as president I’m allowed to do it. I mean, Hillary Clinton is the one that gives her white classified information.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Yeah, Hillary. And how about the idiot John Bolton? I mean, he comes in and all he wants to do is go to war with everybody. If I listened to that idiot, we’d be right now in World War Five. “Sir, we saw some movement in China. I think we should go to war with them. And I think Russia, let’s do them both at the same time. Let’s also go in right now to North Korea.” Hey, do you remember North Korea? We were supposed to be at war with North Korea. What happened? What happened? You know what the press said? They said, it’s amazing. First they said it was amazing and those people lost their job, probably. It’s amazing what I’ve done, they said. No, we’re supposed to be at war. They have a lot of nuclear stuff, it wouldn’t be easy. We’d win, we’re going to win.
Although, I tell you what I took over our military was totally depleted. We had a depleted mil-, we had old planes, we had old everything. It was a depleted military. And now it’s a beautiful brand new … we have F-35s that you can’t see. Stealth, they’re stealth. We have all new rockets, all new missiles, brand new planes, the bombers, the tankers, the jet fighters. What we’ve done is incredible. And we had to do it, somebody had to do it. Somebody said, well, we’re sort of doing some damage to our budget. I said, “Look, I want to have a strong military.” If I see some people, some soldiers from foreign lands, right, walking up or running up the White House lawn, the beautiful south lawn of the White House. I’m not going to be saying, “We didn’t do too well with the military, but we kept it under control in the budget, right?” No, the military supersedes everything.
I don’t know, to me, I’ve always heard the Supreme Court. But to me, the most important thing has always been the military, our defense and our offense if needed. You know, it’s always [inaudible 00:35:36]. Joe Biden should not be asking for your support. He should be begging for your forgiveness and he should be. Biden supported the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership. This building wouldn’t be here if you ever did that one. Which would have been a death sentence for the U.S. auto industry and other industries. He supported the horrendous Korea deal, okay. How about the South Korea deal? It’s a disaster. So that was a Hillary Clinton deal, I must say, not him. Although I guess he had … he was vice, Hey, you know what’s interesting with Biden? So he always says, “Why didn’t the president do this. And why didn’t the president do that? And why didn’t do this and that, and this and that.”
That’s been there for 47 years, but he just left like three and a half years ago. You know what I mean, he was there. And I keep saying, “Why didn’t you do it? Why didn’t you do it?” Could’ve done it. It’s not like he was 25 years ago. They were there three and a half years ago. Why didn’t you do it sleepy Joe? But the Korea deal and I say it all the time. She said, “This will create 250,000 jobs.” And everybody got all excited, oh, those jobs. The problem was the jobs were all produced in South Korea, so that didn’t work out to well. 250,000 jobs for South Korea. Anyway, I renegotiated the deal in its entirety, now it’s a good deal. That was a rip, I’ll tell you.
And the pro-China Paris Climate Accord, it’s pro-everything, it’s pro-everybody but us. That would have cost us trillions of dollars, and we would have had the privilege of closing down Dayton’s … probably 25% of your companies. You could have never, you could have never done it. It’s an anti-America deal. And you know when I did it, I thought I’d be scorned. People understood that it was a total rip off. They understood it. With every decision, Joe Biden twisted a knife into the hands and heart of the American worker. But these brutal betrayals ended the day I took the oath of office, that’s true. I mean, I saw so much stupidity, the endless wars and we’re almost out of Afghanistan as you know. Not easy to get out because we have people in this country, the military industrial complex. Eisenhower called it the military industrial complex, and it does exist. It’s not easy-
[inaudible 00:38:00] industrial complex and it does exist. It’s not easy to get out, but we’re very close to getting out and getting out of the Middle East. We’re down to very little in Iraq. We’re down to almost nothing in Syria, but I will be honest with you, we kept the oil. Somebody said, “You still have some soldiers in Syria?” I said, “That’s why they kept the oil.” We kept the oil. We should have done that in Iraq. Remember I used to say a long time ago before I was, “Don’t go into the Middle East, but if you’re going to go in and keep the oil.”
Well, we went in and we didn’t keep anything and all the death, the blood in the sand, I call it the blood in the sand, that worthless sand. All of that death that has been caused for no reason. It was the worst decision in the history of our country going into the Middle East. We’re in there now $8 trillion, we’re almost out. $8 trillion and nothing but death and millions of lives if you look at both sides, I’ll look at both sides. Somebody would say, “Oh, I shouldn’t be looking at the other side. I look at both sides/ a lot of innocent people were killed. We lost incredible soldiers. I see the coffins, the caskets come in in Dover and I see it. And I said, “Oh boy, Why, why, why, why. Why did they do this?”
My first week, I withdrew from the transpacific partnership and saved that whole business of so much and what I had to do is I extended for a short time and then totally ended NAFTA. You know NAFTA’s the worst trade deal ever made? Ever made. And we did the USMCA, Mexico, Canada. We have a great deal. And the reason I know it’s a great deal because the other sides are unhappy. You always liked to have an unhappy person at the other sides. No, they’re okay. But they had a free rip at us for years and years and years, NAFTA.
How many buildings, how many factories did you lose right here? Where they moved over to Mexico, moved up to Canada, moved all over the place, but that’s not going to happen anymore. The new deal makes it very prohibitive to do that. In 2017, I signed a historic executive order making it really something. You got to do a couple of little expressions it’s called buy American and hire American. You know life is crazy in politics. Biden runs for president like two or three times, right? And I used to call him 1% Joe. And that was primetime for him, right?
Now that primetime is long over, he ends up winning the nomination. Explain that? But had if Elizabeth Warren left and been loyal to her communist ideology, dare say socialist, but it’s communist. It was pretty close. Maybe somewhere in-between heading toward the C-word. But had she left before Super Tuesday, Biden would’ve lost every state, but she took the votes away from Bernie. And Bernie is a nice guy, you know Crazy Bernie. He is the nicest loser I’ve ever seen. When they talk about sportsmanship, he got screwed by Hillary Clinton badly, but not as badly as this time, this was worse.
Because all Pocahontas had to do is leave a day early. She didn’t even have to endorse him. And the votes that she got, which weren’t many, but far more than he needed, because he lost a couple of states by literally a small amount of votes. He would’ve gotten most of those votes. He would’ve won. He would have been the one we fought. I don’t know/ who would have been better? Who would have been easier Sleepy Joe Biden or Crazy Bernie? Tell me.
Sleepy Joe, who says Sleepy Joe? Who says Bernie? I don’t know. It’s hard. Bernie had more spirit. Joe’s got no spirit, it’s dead as a rock. The only spirit he’s got is spirit to beat me. And that’s called the negative spirit. And historically that doesn’t do that well. If you look at old races when somebody’s getting votes because they don’t like somebody, you know there’s an ideology that let’s face it doesn’t like me too much. Somebody said, “We don’t like his personality.” I said, “I always thought I had a good personality.” They don’t like my personality. Who the hell cares about my personality, right? Right?
Got to get the job done. See those rough guys over there? I don’t like their personality either, but they get the job done. Right? Who the hell cares? Who cares about their personality? But when Sleepy Joe was vice president and other countries flooded our market… Thank you very much. Who is that? Wow. Good voice. Have you ever tried opera? Good voice. Thank you, darling.
But other countries flooded our market with subsidized washing machines. You remember that disaster? Does anybody know about the Whirlpool plant in Clyde, Ohio? Right? And the head of Whirlpool came to see me. I was president-elect and he called and I don’t know, for some reason I’ve heard of Whirlpool and I’ve heard of it all my life, I guess. I didn’t know much about it. They made washing machines and I never knew, I knew they were dumping steel on us and dumping certain things. But I didn’t know they were dumping washing machines.
And he was a good guy, came up to my office and he said, “They’re putting us out of business, South Korea, China, they’re dumping washing machines.” They make washing machines. They dump them into our market. They put everybody out of business. Then they charge you a lot of money when everyone’s gone. Just like Rockefeller used to do, right? Just like other people do right now, unfortunately, but we’re trying to track them down. And I said, “That’s really terrible.” I don’t know. Somehow it hit me. So we put a 50% tariff on all washing machines coming into our country. And I visited with Jim Jordan. You know Jim Jordan?
You know he’s a great wrestler. One of the best. He was a great, great wrestler. Really a phenomenal wrestler, a real champion, NCAA champion and old Jim. And that’s the way he is. He’s a tough guy. No games, right? No games. That he works with our guys here, your guys. And he was great, but it’s Jim’s area. And we went up and saw the plant and then making thousands a day. I mean, they gave me a number, it can’t be positive. I think they said like 20,000 a day. I said, “How the hell can you make that many washing machines?” But you know what I’m talking about Congressmen, right?
They’re making thousands of washing machines a day and it’s a vibrant company again, it was dead, it was going to close. But I evened up the score, I put the tariffs and now what they’re doing is LG and Samsung, and these companies that made the washing machine they’re now coming into the United States. And in order to avoid the tariff, they’re building plants in the United States and that’s okay and that’s what we should be doing.
We’re going to be doing it a lot more too. We’re going to be doing it a lot more. Biden allowed other countries to target our steel industries and it was like a disaster for our steel industry, but we took historic action to end these practices and place strong tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel. And it brought back our steel. Now steel plants are opening or being upgraded in Toledo, Marion, Cuyahoga Heights, Mingo Junction, and all across the Midwest. They were gonzo.
And you know certain industries you need. Some industries you don’t, but steel you need. Steel you need. For defense, you need it. You don’t want to talk war. You don’t want to talk about that, but if we had a problem,” what are you going to do? “Well, we don’t have any steel mills.” Let’s see if we can get some steel from China. “But sir, you’re fighting them. Well, that’s not working out too well.” No, we had to save our steel. We had to save our aluminum industry and we’ve done it. We’ve done a great job, but you have a lot of steel mills going up right here in Ohio.
And a lot of them being expanded. And they’re really state-of-the-art. As vice president, Biden did nothing as China stole our intellectual property, flooded our markets with dumped goods. Unfairly subsidized these industries. Manipulated its currency. They’re the greatest in the world at that. I go to my guys, they said, “What about doing a little movement on the dollar?” “Sir, we can’t do that. It has to float naturally.” Well, China does it. China, you talk about a manipulation. Man, it’s like a yo-yo. Let’s see, let’s raise it. Let’s lower it, lets do this and that.
But we actually called them on it, didn’t we Congressman? Turner, by the way, you did such a good job. You are a hell of a lawyer. You could represent me any day. Actually he did. He actually did represent me. Right? Davidson Turner, what a group. They’re tough. And then you had Jordan into it. They liked him though, don’t they huh? They like Jim. And they poisoned our communities with fentanyl. You know that? Instead, Biden allowed China to ravage our towns, raid our factories and rip apart our communities. That’s what they did. And then he goes in and he brings his son. “Hey, see if you can give him some money. Give him a billion and a half dollars.”
I went to Steve Schwarzman. Steve Schwarzman is like one of the biggest guys on Wall Street, Blackstone. I said, “Steve, what are the chances.” He does a lot of business with China said, “Steve, what are the chances of somebody walking into an office in China and in 10 minutes, walking out with 1.5 billion to manage?” He said, Zero.” He said, “I couldn’t do it and I have this great company.” It’s a disgrace. How about where he points? Then he says, “You’re not getting your billion dollars unless you get rid of that damn prosecutor.” And then they says, “They got rid of the prosecutor. Here’s your billion dollars.”
Does anything happen? Nothing happens. I’m so angry at Republicans. I am. I’m so angry. I am so angry, but a lot of things are happening. You’re seeing, you’re reading the papers also. A lot of things are happening. You know they spied on my campaign and we caught them. And by the way, that’s Biden, that’s Obama. They spied on my campaign. It’s never happened before. It’s treason. Comey and all the sleazebags, they spied on my campaign and we caught them. Let’s now see what happened. I stay out of it. I just say, I’m trying like hell to stay out of it.
I don’t have to actually, but it’s better if I do. I think. Barry is shaking his head sort of like that’s the weakest yes, but it’s true. Right? But it’s true, I’m trying to stay out of it. But it’s a disgrace that it’s taken this long. I tell you what, these people are bad people. They’ve done things. What they’ve done to General Flynn and to other people is a disgrace. It’s a disgrace. And many others, but Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the USA. It’s very simple.
And I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China and their decades of pillaging, plundering, looting, including these massive tariffs. Don’t forget, I charged tariffs. Took in tens of billions of dollars. They targeted our great farmers. Do we have any farmers here? Any farmers? Well, am I correct? We gave the farmers $28 billion. Thank you very much, China. Right? Because they were targeted for 28 over a two-year period, 12 and 16. Right? Did you get your check? And you might not be in business if I didn’t do that.
Good? Good. Thank you, darling. She gave me the right answer. It’s always dangerous to do that. No, I never got the money. No. She got the money. Yeah? But once again, Joe Biden has sided with China over America. Look, you think this guy’s going to be tough in China? His son? No, no. Think of it. And then he takes ads. “He’s going to be tough on China.” This guy, they looted him and Obama. And in all fairness, not just the eight years, this has gone on for 25, 30 years. Probably the biggest reason I decided to run and give up one of the greatest lives anyone’s ever had for this, for this.
But you know why I like it? Because we have done more in the first three and a half years than any administration in the history of the country. And I say that and these fake news people don’t even question it. There’s nobody done what we’ve done. Between our military, between our trade, between our energy independence. All of the things, we could go on forever. But Biden vowed to remove those tariffs. He wants to remove the tariffs. You know when I made the deal with China, I said I have to leave the tariffs on. They said, “You got to be kidding.” They wanted one thing, the removal of the tariffs, and I wouldn’t do it. We wouldn’t do it. I said no.
But Biden said the other day, he wants to take the… He doesn’t know what a tariff is first of all. “Sleepy Joe would like to remove the tariffs off China. They’re paying billions of dollars a year. Could we take them off?” “Absolutely. What are they exactly?” But it wouldn’t even happen that way. The radical left, which likes China, the radical left would walk into his office. And here’s your bill, right? It was supposed to be a speech. I haven’t exactly used it too much today. And they’ll say, “Here President, sign this.” Oh, okay. Do you have a pen? Okay. What was that?” “That’s the deal with China. Don’t worry about it.” That’s what would happen.
But he gave China free rein to continue ransacking the American Heartland. And you know, look, they were targeting you. The reason nobody took on China was China said, “We’re going to go after your heartland.” And they said that to the presidents. And I said, “Go ahead, do it.” And the farmers were the most loyal. They all said, “We’ve got to do it sometime.” They told me that. I mean, they told me that loud and clear. We didn’t lose anything with the farmers. They said, “Somebody’s got to do it.” And I said, “Here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to let them target you. They’re going to stop buying. We’re going to charge them tariffs and going to give you back the money that you lost, that you were targeted for. And we’re going to have tens of billions leftover for the treasury.” That’s exactly what happened. Nobody else ever told him that.
Joe Biden is weak. He’s too scared to stand up to the radical left of his own party. And he’s terrified of standing up to China, but I believe he’s much more scared of the radical left than he is of China. That’s why China is desperate. You see the reports and news reports. They want Biden to win. They want Biden to win. They want him to win at any cost. If Biden is elected, China will own America. And if Biden is elected, you will have a depression the likes of which this country has never seen before. It’s very simple. It’s very simple.
Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.
Largest tax increase ever proposed. That’s what they’re going to have. Does anybody mind paying more tax? All my life I’ve studied. I like politics. I just always liked it. It’s lucky I liked it because I never did it before. They said, “He can’t run. He’s got no experience.” And now that I look around yesterday, I was in the Oval Office, I said, “Oh, excuse me. Is this the Oval Office?” No, but a lot of it’s common sense. It’s all common sense. That’s why we call it protest. We’re studying some of the things. I’ll tell you one quick story. So we’re building an aircraft carrier long before my term, the Gerald Ford. And they decide on the catapults. You know the catapult? That throws the plane into the air. For years, it’s been 50 years, whatever longer, it’s been steam, simple, beautiful steam … throws her off …
You ever see those airplanes? They go off. They catapult. So I noticed that this ship is never getting done. I came in and they said, “Oh, it’s got tremendous cost overruns.” I said, “What’s the problem?” Well, the catapult system doesn’t work.” “That’s strange because they’ve been building them for years. I wonder why.” You know about this. And I said, “Strange, let me check.” So anyway, I’m supposed to go over and take a tour. I went to take a tour of the ship, find out why it’s so late. I won’t tell you how many billions of dollars it’s over budget. Billions and billions of dollars. But I heard the catapult system and the elevators are no good. Other than that, it’s wonderful. Right?
The elevators that bring the planes up, they don’t work. So if you have a problem, you can get your plans up. They’re down stuck in a garage, down at the bottom. Not too good. So I go over and they want me to meet the admiral, but I said, “No, no, no. I don’t want to meet the admiral yet.” I meet with the admirals a lot. I got a lot of admirals. I like the admirals. “I want to meet with the catapultors.” “Sir, why would you want to meet with the catapultors for?” “I want to find out why the hell the catapults don’t work.”
So I went there and you know they did a new system. It’s electric, it’s all electric. So instead of steam, which is simple and great and powerful and good. And they know how it works for years and years, they decided to go all electric. Now if you take a little glass of water, take this glass of water, you throw it and that’s the end of that. You bring somebody in from MIT, how the hell do you fix it? And we’re dealing with the ocean and rockets being shot at the ship and the rough stuff. Right? But it wasn’t working. So I said, “No, I want to meet with a catapultor.”
So there were five people that came in. One’s been doing it for over 20 years I think he said. I said, “Who’s the boss?” “I am, sir.” I said, “What do you think of our new system of electric catapults?” “Sir, it’s no good, sir.” I said, “That’s not good.” That’s actually it is what I expected it to be on. I said, “So, it’s no good. Right? The system is no good?” “No, sir.” I said, “What do you think of steam?” “Sir, it’s the greatest. That if it breaks down, I can fix it with a blowtorch or this hammer, I can fix it. And if the waves hit it, sir, all it does is cool it down a little bit, sir. It’s actually good for it, good for the surrounding steel.” I said, “So you think it’s better?”
Surrounding steel. I said, “So you think it’s better?” I said, “Why did they do the electric?” Because they are totally inexperienced. Then I wanted to see the architect and I saw a representative, the architect of ship. Now this is a ship that costs $15 billion. And I looked at the architect. I said, “Have you designed a ship before?” And he said, “Yeah, I have.” I said, “You know, they have a $900 million cost overrun for electric catapults, and they’re no good even if they were.” I said to the guy, “Why is it that they did away?” “Sir, we could do it much faster. The thing goes back and forth.” I said, “All right, well, that makes sense.” But the catapulter said, “But sir, it doesn’t matter because it takes one minute and 52 seconds, if you’re Mario Andretti’s team, to get a plane hooked in. So the steam generates during that minute and a half and it’s all set to go. It doesn’t help that it keeps going back and forth.”
I said, “That makes sense. That makes sense.” So it’s $900 million in cost overruns and here’s the story. They spent much more money and it’s no good. Then they have the elevators. Now, tractors use hydraulic, right? You know, they could do anything. Lift up. They go. It can rain. It can snow. Lightning hits the damn thing and nothing happens. The lightning gets hurt. Nothing happens. So they have these big elevators that lift the planes up. You know, the sirens go off. Everything’s beautiful. The problem is the elevators don’t work. So they’re magnetized. They’re lifted by magnets. I said, “Who the hell ever heard?” I know about that. You know, it’s a new technology that’s about 200 years off. So instead of using powerful hydraulic that never breaks, they have magnetized elevators. So stupid. I mean, honestly, so stupid.
I tell you this because you’re workers and you guys understand this. It’s what we do is so stupid. So they have hundreds of millions of dollars in cost overrun for stuff that’s no good. And two years ago I told them it’s no good. You might as well rip it out because it’s never going to work. You put hydraulic in the elevators and you go back to steam and it’s such a shame to see the kind of money that was squandered by people that have no idea what the hell they’re doing. It’s a shame. Yeah. It’s a shame. And you would understand that. I’d only tell that story to really sort of a group like this because you guys understand it. It’s mechanical engineering at a very easy level. It’s easy to understand. Hundreds of millions of dollars wasted for something not as good.
For decades. Our politicians spent trillions and trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign Wars, and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities. We are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA where they belong.
When the terrible plague arrived from China, we mobilized American industry like never before. We rapidly developed lifesaving therapies reducing the fatality rate by 85%. We’ve done such a good job, except in terms of public relations because the press just will not accept that. Think of what we’ve done with the ventilators. Soon, soon, the vaccines and the therapeutics, Remdesivir and other things. Europe is almost 30% greater excess mortality than the United States. They don’t want to say it. And now, as you know, you heard today, Europe had a tremendous outbreak. Okay. You know, they say, “Well, Europe, Europe, Europe.” No, we’re doing great. We’re doing great. Sadly, very sadly, I hate it, but they had a big outbreak that caused a stir in the market today. We launched the most ambitious vaccine program ever created. And we will deliver a vaccine before the end of the year, but it could be a lot sooner than that, a lot sooner.
You know, it’s interesting. The Democrats, they’re all saying, “We want a vaccine.” That’s when they thought we couldn’t get it, right? Because if we relied on them, this vaccine would have taken two or three years more because of the FDA, and I’ve mobilized the FDA, and it’s incredible. But it would have taken two or three years more. So when they heard that we were getting the vaccine, they started knocking it. Think of it. So they put politics over life and death. I mean, it’s incredible. By the way, we’re rounding the corner in any event, but we’re going to have a vaccine very soon, is a great vaccine, great, great vaccine. It’s looking really good, really good. And it’s going to be a lot sooner than anyone thought. And it’s pretty sad when the Democrats try and make that into a political issue. Because they’re unhappy. It’s coming too soon. They didn’t think that would happen. We will end this pandemic in the next year. Will be one of the greatest years of the history of our country. That’s what’s happening. The third quarter will end just before November 3rd. You will see numbers, the likes of which no country has ever seen. That’s how well we’re doing. You’ll see. And if it’s before, so, they’re not good. I guess you’re going to have to remember that. And if they’re good, I hope you’re going to remember it too, but they’re going to be great. Somebody predicted 25% and then somebody said 35% GDP increase. Nobody’s ever heard of a number like that. But that’s the kind of thing we’re doing.
Under my leadership, we built the strongest economy in the history of the world, and now we are doing it again. In the past four months, we’ve added a record smashing 10.6 million jobs, never been close to that. Four months, 10.6 million jobs. Manufacturing production is up 61%. auto production has surged 500%. And retail sales have soared 112%.
But if sleepy Joe Biden wins, the economy will collapse. It’s going to collapse. Even psychologically it’ll collapse. And you know, as good as the stock market’s doing, it’s a headwind knowing you have an election. Things happen in elections, some bad things, some stupid things. But that’s a headwind. We’d be doing even better if this election were over. If we win and when we win the election, you’re going to see things roar because that’s what people want. That’s what the market wants. And that’s what the workers want. Biden keeps talking about a nationwide shutdown. There is no shutdown. My plan is to crush the virus. Biden plan and Biden’s really plan is to, and it’s not that he wants to crush America, but he will just out of gross incompetence. Biden will surrender to the virus, just like he surrendered to China.
And just like he surrendered to the radical left, including his own running mate who’s running the show. And she’s nothing special. She is nothing. Between her and Elizabeth Warren, what a couple of great ones. What a couple of, what some people? Well, I’ll tell you something. Elizabeth Warren did do a great number on Bloomberg. Didn’t she? I tell you. One question and that was the end of him. How you enjoying politics, Mike? That didn’t work out too well. $1.8 billion wiped out in one question. That was the most expensive question in history.
To protect our workers during the pandemic, I suspended the entry of new foreign workers who threatened American jobs. I know you don’t mind. You don’t mind that, do you folks? As the economy reopens, I want to ensure American workers that we’re putting America first and our jobs are put first. Our country is put first. Our manufacturing is put first. Everything is now put first for the USA.
And by the way, we’re up to mile 330 on the wall. We’re setting records on not allowing all of these. I mean, some really bad. When you look at the traffickers. They traffic in women and drugs and other things, but they traffic in women, the drug dealers always. Setting records now on the wall because we have 330 miles. We’re averaging 10 miles a week and we’ll be finished with the wall very soon. And it’s had a huge impact.
So one of the most radical things that will happen, and there’s no way he can get away with this because he was banning fracking for a year. He’s running, running, he’s banning fracking. I said, “He’s gone. He’s gone.” And then all of a sudden, now all of sudden he said, “Well, I didn’t really say that.” He did. Remember, it’s always the first thing they say with a politician. It’s the first thing. He wants to ban fracking and outlaw Ohio energy production.
And you’re a big energy producer, whether you know it or not. So he’s going to ban fracking. There’s no question about it. And even if he didn’t want to, the whole radical left, their plan is to ban fracking. They want to ban fracking. They don’t want any fossil fuels. Just a few days ago, Biden reiterated his plan to require net zero carbon emissions. So you do that. I think it’s wonderful. Close up about 70% of your plants. This requirement would end all investment in fracking and it would just shut down everything. Our country, do you see the rolling blackouts they have in California? I don’t think we want too many of them in Ohio. Do we? Would anybody like a few rolling blackouts? Like we’d like to watch president Trump tonight. I’m sorry, darling, but we have no energy. We have no energy.
We’re going to get it from the wind. The wind is blowing. The wind, the wind has got a wonderful, wonderful energy. The wind, when it’s blowing it’s just fine for about 20% of the time. By ending fracking, Biden would destroy 700,000 to a million Ohio jobs and your energy prices would go through the roof. When Biden was Vice President, they deliberately killed 40% of all coal mining jobs and the rest were coming fast. I saved it. I put our miners back to work, clean coal. I call it clean coal. Can do a lot with coal. And while I’m President, America will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world and Ohio workers will continue leading the way. And that’s what we’re doing. And just in concluding, over the next four years, we will build America into the manufacturing, super power of the world. And we will end our reliance on China and all other faraway lands that nobody in this beautiful facility, whatever the hell you make here, I don’t know, but it looks good to me. But nobody ever heard of it. You have lands that would go to that nobody ever even heard of. Where are you sending this money? We’re sending it to such and such a country. I never heard of it.
We’ll make our medical supplies right here in the United States. We’ll cut your taxes and taxes for middle class families at a level never seen before. You know, we gave you the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. We gave you the biggest regulation cut in the history of our country. And we’re going to give you additional regulation cuts. That’s one of the reasons you had the jobs. You know, in many ways, the regulation cutting was perhaps as important or more important. You see the tax cutting easier, but the regulation cutting was every bit as important. And we’re going to expand opportunity zones to ensure that no community is left behind. And they’ve been a tremendous success, especially for the African American, Hispanic community. We’re doing incredible. Tim Scott, great Senator from South Carolina. We worked hard on it. Opportunities zones. It’s a big success.
We’ll enforce immigration rules that defend American families, raise American wages, and always put the interests of American workers first. We will enact fair trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA, right? And we will always live by the timeless words of our national motto: In God We trust. And they took the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance. You saw that. I was listening to this Pledge of Allegiance and I said, “That’s strange. They must’ve made a mistake. It must’ve been a typo. Something happened.” But then it happened twice. And then it was getting ready to happen a third time, and somebody heard that the public was enraged, including me by the way. And by the way, we want the NFL to stand and put their hand on their heart. Got to do it. Right?
I thought we taught them that lesson about two years ago. The commissioner tried it again. It’s not working too well. Not working. The ratings are not good. People are angry about it. People love our country. You love our country. You love our flag. You love our anthem. This November, if you want jobs, if you want opportunity, if you want safety, and if you want a President who defends the dreams of workers in Dayton and Akron and all across Ohio in America, then you need to get out and vote for Trump, Mike Pence. How good is Mike Pence? Trump Pence. And I love Mike, but it’s not Pence Trump, okay? You understand? It’s not Pence. Mike will be the first one to say. You know, when he said that the other day. He said the Harris Biden administration. I said, “That’s strange.” And Mike called me up. He said, “You never have to do that.” I said, “Don’t worry, Mike. I won’t. I promise.” Mike Pence has done a great job. I’ll tell you. He’s a great guy.
Together we will make America safer. We will make America stronger and prouder and greater than ever before. We’re going to make it greater than ever before. And again, this was not a rally. This was a group of people, workers, and this is what it was told to me as, and we had a lot of fun and we have a lot of fun, but it’s very serious business. November 3rd and before, depending on whether or not you have those fake ballots or whatever. Be careful with that. I mean, that thing is going to be one of the great catastrophes. What a mess. And they want it to be a mess. They know it’s no good. I think it’s 11 different races. When they have small races, they can’t account. People steal the ballots. People don’t get the ballots.
They don’t send them to a Republican area or maybe a Democrat area, whatever, it’s still wrong. But it happens to be Republican, unfortunately. But they don’t send them out. Then they harvest them, which they’re not allowed to do. They have in Nevada, the Governor said he signed an order that they don’t have to sign. We need no signature verification. Oh, that’s great. Because they couldn’t get people to sign, so they said, “We’ll just send them in. Don’t worry about it.” This is a real affront to our democracy. This is a horrible thing that’s going on. And the Democrats know it and they say, “Well, he’s not for our great heritage. He is fighting our vote.” No I’m not fighting our vote. You have ballots that you go out and you can get, you could request as you know, you can request them and that’s fine.
But if you’re not requesting them, when you get millions of ballots, 80 million they say all over the United States, where the hell are they going? Who’s sending them? Who is getting them? Who’s sending them back? What’s happening with the transportation? Who’s guarding the lockboxes? They know it’s a fraud waiting to happen. But you know, we’re not talking about 1%, which is no good, because you could lose or win an election by 1%, we’re talking about 20%, 30% in one case, over 40%. This is a disgrace that they’re allowed to get away with. And what they want to do is they want to have a mess at the end of the evening on November 3rd and then fight it out in the courts. And the Democrats should be ashamed of themselves because they know what they’re causing. We love Ohio. We love Dayton. God bless you. God bless Ohio. And God bless America. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
There’s a lot of people. That’s great. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That’s a big group of people. This is on fast notice, too. Thank you.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Well, I just want to say hello, Minnesota. We love you, Minnesota. You’re great. [crosstalk 00:12:53]. We’ve got to win Minnesota, because they did nothing for Minnesota except close up that beautiful [inaudible 00:13:03] territory. They closed it up with a pen. Do you remember that one day? You didn’t have your jobs. Then I came along, and I opened it up. So that’s [crosstalk 00:13:11].
But I’m thrilled to be here with the beautiful, great, hardworking people of this incredible state. You’re really hardworking American patriots. That’s what you are, and a lot of people haven’t been treated right until I came along. We’ve done a lot of work and a lot of good work, and you had your best year ever last year. The state had the best year you’ve ever had. 46 days from now, we’re going to win Minnesota, and we’re going to win four more years in the White House.
One of the most vital issues in this election is the subject of refugees. You know it. You know it perhaps better than almost anybody. Lots of luck. You’re having a good time with the refugees. That’s good. We want to have Omar. He said Omar. That’s a beauty. How the hell did she win the election? How did she win? It’s unbelievable. Every family in Minnesota needs to know about sleepy Joe Biden’s extreme plan to flood your state with an influx of refugees from Somalia, from other places all over the planet. Well, that’s what’s happened, and you like Omar a lot, don’t you? Biden has promised a 700% increase in the manifesto with Bernie, right? A 700% increase in the importation of refugees from the most dangerous places in the world, including Yemen, Syria, and Somalia. Congratulations, Minnesota. A 700% increase. Good luck, Minnesota. Enjoy yourselves, because if I’m not here, if I don’t win, I don’t know where I’m going to be. But maybe I’ll come over to see Mike. I’ll come and see Mike.
Your state will be overrun and destroyed, and Biden and the radical Left win. That’s what’s going to happen. I’ve been watching it for years. They haven’t treated you right. They have not treated Minnesota right.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. I’ll tell you, these hangers are great. Remember this. It’s a friendly protest. Please remember this is not a rally. You’re not allowed to have political rallies of any kind. You’re not allowed to go to church. You’re not allowed to do anything. The only thing you’re allowed to do is run wild through the streets, burn down storefronts, blow up stores, and kill people, because that’s considered a protest, and that, they allow you to have. You don’t have to wear masks at protests. So I said, “We can’t have a rally. The most we can have is ten people. But why don’t we just call it a protest?”, because this is a protest. It’s a protest against stupidity. Speaking about stupidity, sleepy Joe will turn Minnesota into a refugee camp. Think of it. 700% increase. So you’re not happy now? Look at that guy over there. He’s not too thrilled when he hears this. 700% increase is what they have in the manifesto. Now, maybe they don’t honor it, but I would say they’ll go substantially higher than that number. Biden will overwhelm your children’s schools, overcrowd their classrooms, and inundate your hospitals. That’s what’ll happen. Biden has even pledged to terminate our travel ban to jihadist regions, jihadist regions. They’ve already been doing that to you, haven’t they? Opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorists.
My administration’s keeping terrorists, extremists, and criminals the hell out of our country. We don’t want them. We don’t want them. We’ve got enough of them. We’ve got enough of them. Just today, we deported, as you know very well, dozens of Somali nationals charged or convicted with very grave crimes, including rape, assault, robbery, terrorism, and murder, of course. These hardened criminals are back in their country, where they do all the complaining they want, and your children are much safer as a result. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you. If it were up to Biden, and it’s not. It’s the people that’s around him. They are seriously radical Left Democrats, and they’re very dangerous. The offenders are very dangerous, and they’d be running all over your state. Only by voting for me are you going to say … But I hate to say this, and get it with your iron ore. I did it with some other things, and I’ll do it for you again. I’ll do it for you again. But if you vote for me, I’m the difference, and I’m the wall. You know the wall that we’re building on the southern border? I’m your wall between the American Dream and chaos. Joe Biden is wholly owned and controlled by the left wing mob. He has no clue where he is. This is not a sharp guy.
Years ago, I said to a certain senator who I was very friendly with, a Democrat, “Who’s the dumbest senator? Who’s the smartest senator?” He gave me a name for the smartest. I said, “Who’s the dumbest?” “Oh, Joe Biden. You didn’t know that?” That was 25 years ago. That was in prime time. This is no longer prime time for sleepy Joe.
They do disinformation. They make things up, and they make commercials. They make things up. I’ve never seen anything like it. Everything, they make up. First of all, I’m the one protecting your Social Security. They say, “Trump” … Remember four years ago, they used to say, “Oh, Trump will get rid of Social” … I have protected your Social Security. They’re going to destroy your Social Security.
Another thing, Big 10 football. Did I do a good job? Your team better do well. They’re on the spot. They better do well. Are they going to do well this year? I think so, right? When I brought it back. But I saw an ad. Do you know why I did it, actually? It sort of energized me. Sleepy Joe did an ad that I was against football, that I was against Big 10 football. Give me a break. When I saw the ad, I said, “What’s the problem with Big 10 football?” They said, “They’re not going to open.” “Why?” They say some stupid reason. I said, “These are strong young people. They’re going to do great. Let’s get going.” I called the commissioner, Kevin. Good guy, and we sort of started something. We got it rolling. We had big opposition from a few of the Democrat states and governors, but we rolled over the opposition, and you have Big 10 football. Congratulations. Congratulations. When the far Left riders rampage across Minneapolis and they rampage across your state, how about your police department? Let’s just run for your lives, and it’s not their fault. They were told to do that. You have a good police department. You have good police, but they’re not allowed to do their job. They’re not allowed to do their job. Remember that? They were told to leave the precinct. Leave it, and then they knocked the hell out of that precinct, didn’t they? Had a great mayor. Great mayor. Really, he’s a real [inaudible 00:21:10]. Remember? Did you ever hear of a man, Fiorello La Guardia? Did you ever? I don’t think that happened with him. New York, I don’t think it happened with Rudy Giuliani, did it? What a great job Rudy did. You realize Rudy’s just now really being appreciated. People forgot how good he was as a man. He was a great mayor.
Joe Biden called the peaceful protestors. He said these are peaceful protestors, as opposed to sending in the National Guard. They didn’t want the National Guard. Joe Biden said you shouldn’t send the National Guard, and this went on day after day after day. I pushed, and I got it approved. The National Guard went in. It ended within what would you say, half hour? It was about a half an hour. You wouldn’t have Minneapolis. You better remember this when you go and vote and your voting [crosstalk 00:21:59]. You’d be saying, “Do you remember when we had a city called Minneapolis? If you remember, it used to be over there. It’s all ashes now. That place was coming down. You didn’t have anything, but wasn’t that a beautiful sight?” Look. All of a sudden, you saw one guy in a black uniform, then another, then another on the street. Remember that street loaded up with CNN reporters? Remember Ali Velshi, shaved head, nice hair, shaved head? Some people say I should do that. Shave the head. Just give it up. [crosstalk 00:22:41]. We polled it. I’d go down about 22 points.
They want to poll everything nowadays. I don’t believe in polls. They poll everything. But Ali Velshi, I don’t know anything about the guy, but I know he was standing there. This is really quite a good scene. It’s a friendly protest. Everyone’s acting … and behind him, the entire city was burning. It’s one of the great pictures of all time. The entire city was burning down. That was your city, and it’s a shame it took so long, but the governor finally did it at least. If you take a look at Portland, the governor can’t quite do it. She can’t get there. I speak to her all the time. “Come on, Governor. I can straighten out Portland. Give me less than an hour. Just let us have it for” … because the state has to ask for it. They have to request. It’s a shame. It’s such a shame.
But in your case, we went, and all of a sudden, it was really … That was going to be a bad night, too, right? Remember that, about seven o’clock? Then you see this guy walked out with about a $250,000 outfit on. That’s because it had more computers and this and that. Got the tear gas deal. He’s got the whole deal, pepper spray, got everything, the finest outfit you can buy. Believe me. We just paid for them, and they were very expensive. So we see one, the helmet. How about the helmet with the goggles? You can see at night. You can see at day. You can see whenever the hell you want. So there’s one. I said, “Oh, that’s only one guy.” Then you see another three, then four. Then you see another ten. They were just getting out of the buses, coming from very friendly territory.
Then you have a line, and they were very tight together. There was no social distancing at all, which we’re going to have to speak to them about that. No, they were touching. They were touching, right? So you had the first one. Then you had a second one. Then you had a third one. Then you had another one. Then they said, “March.” I remember this guy, [inaudible 00:24:42]. He got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas, and he went down. He was down. “My knee, my knee.” Nobody cared. These guys didn’t care. They moved them aside, and they just walked right to … It was the most beautiful thing.
No, because after we take all that crap for weeks and weeks, they would take this crap, and then you finally see men get up there and go right to … Wasn’t it really a beautiful sight? For law and order, law and order. Portland would be easier, because it’s more confined. We’d just [inaudible 00:25:19], and that would be it. But so they had four or five lines. Then they had lines of different … Everybody did the same thing. Did they ever even move one step back? I don’t think so, right? It was just a slow walk right forward. Then they just started walking faster, faster, faster, put a lot of guys in jail, Tom, right? Put a lot of guys … Great Congressman, by the way. Put a lot of guys in jail. Great. Not good. Great. They put a lot of guys in jail that night, Tom, and that was the end of it. I don’t think he had any problem after that. If you had any flare-ups, we’ll send them in again.
But that’s all you do. These are Democrat-run disasters. Look at Chicago. Look at Portland. Look at you with Minneapolis. These are disasters. By the way, are they still trying to get rid of your police force in Minneapolis? That’s what I heard. See, they never learn. They never learn. They don’t … You’ve got a lot of people here. That’s a lot of people.
I actually like these. We have the arenas. We’ve always filled them up. It’s been great, and the arenas are good, but usually you have to travel 45 minutes. This thing, you have a hangar. The plane becomes your backstop, right? It’s like your curtain. It’s a curtain. You get a free curtain. We’re outside, which actually makes people happy. It even makes the people that sometimes not everybody here likes happy, because outside is better. It’s better, and we’re rounding the turn on COVID, by the way. Our vaccines are coming. A lot of things are happening. We’re rounding the turn. We’ve done a great job. We’ve done a phenomenal job. We don’t get credit for that, but we’ll discuss that in a minute.
But when you look at it, when you look at it, our country is amazing. It’s an amazing country. We love this country, and we’re not going to let radical Left socialist/communists take over our country. Okay? They use the word socialist, and socialists aren’t great. But communists are a hell of a lot worse, and that’s where we’d be headed. We’re standing in the way of them, this group of people. But you have a lot of groups of people just like this, every place we go. Last night, you know where we were. You saw that it was all over the place, right? That’s a big state. That’s a great state. Then I see the fake polls. I just saw a poll here, Minnesota. I’m down nine. I don’t think so. I mean, I just don’t think so. I don’t think so, right? I don’t think so. It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. This is the craziest thing I’ve seen.
We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump.
President Trump is down nine in Minnesota.
We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump.
Now I just saw another plane. See the plane? The good thing about these beautiful Air Force Ones, right? That’s the smaller version of Air Force One. I think you had a little bit short runway. So they take the smaller to save about $12. No, they took the smaller one. But the great thing about those beautiful planes, they have more televisions than any plane in history. We have televisions in the closet, on the ceilings, on the floors. I’ve never seen them on the … We have them all over the place, and I’m just coming out. They said, “There he is.” They said, “It’s a smattering of people.” They called it a smattering. They always do that.
Yet Biden with the circles, right? The little circles. He’s got like four people in a circle. You know why he does the circles? Because he can’t draw a crowd. So they put a circle, like he’s supposed to … He’s trying to be legitimate. He’s going to go by the science. He always says science. He doesn’t know what the word science is. So to have these four or five circles, they put people, that way he doesn’t have to be embarrassed when he goes to a high school gymnasium and he has 40, 50 people.
They had one not so long ago, and you saw this. He couldn’t draw a crowd. It was a big thing. It was his opening or something. Couldn’t draw a crowd. So they made it a round table. So he went in. They only had like 32 people. They said, “This is very embarrassing,” one of his people, and that’s what they do. They’re good. Some of the people surrounding him, they’ll say anything and do anything. They said, “Let’s not make it a speech. There’s nobody here. Let’s make it a round table.” So these people are sitting at a table. They had no idea, and most of them didn’t know anything about politics. They didn’t even know why they were there. Now they’re sitting on a round table, and they’re on television. But that’s what it is. But they say we had a smattering of people. Yes, smattering of about what? 15,000 people in about two days’ notice.
This doesn’t include the 10,000 people, Mike, that they turned away. I hate that they turned them away. You’d think with an airport, you wouldn’t have to turn anybody away, but they have a certain amount. Then sometimes you have Democrats running an airport, and they don’t like all these people here. That’s true. They don’t like it. But if we’re up to Biden, your state would be in ruins. Just take a look at what they’ve done, and I’m going to hit it hard. They make phony commercials about me, and it gives me the right. How about the worst one of all, the worst I’ve ever seen? Standing on a grave of a fallen soldier, and then they had some guy, a source said … There’s no source. The source doesn’t exist. They make it up, and then they take it. It’s called disinformation. You’re not supposed to do that.
I’m not even sure if he knows. He’s too weak to understand, and he’s still weak to control his people. But it allows me to say whatever I want about this guy. The truth is, he’s not fit to be your President. He’s not mentally fit. If Biden’s elected, extremists, like representative Ilhan Omar … Whatever happened to her? You had a great writer who has just made a living off writing about her. She’s done so many criminal acts. Isn’t it damn disgraceful that she gets away with it? I have to say to myself, I say, “How the hell did she get away with that? If we do one” … Look at General Flynn. He didn’t even lie. They said he didn’t lie, right? He’s gone through hell. He’s gone through hell. This guy wrote page after page of criminal acts. Well, let’s see what happens. Who the hell knows? But between her and how about AOC? AOC-
AOC is running a campaign against the guy that was supposed to be speaker of the house. Right? Joe Crowley. I knew him a little bit. I asked him once I said, “Are you campaigning against this maniac?” He said, “No, she’s just a young girl. No problem.” I called him on election night. Nah, I was going to, I was going to say, “How did that work out, Joe? That didn’t work.”
He was going to be Speaker Of The House. He’s got a certain talent. But you know she had no money, nothing. And all of a sudden she had $2,000,000 and she spent the $2,000,000 all over the place. Her and her boyfriend. Whatever happened to her? Can you imagine if I’d do that? You have to look at that. She spent the $2,000,000 and big story.
But that was it. That’s one quick story. Oh man. Probably the guy who wrote the story, lost his job at the New York Times. Right? He’s now unemployed, but there’s a big story. She spent $2,000,000 on bullshit. If a Republican did that they’d be in jail. You know that. It’s a different standard and it’s a disgrace. And our guys better get on the ball.
Look, let me tell you how about yesterday. They were talking about Russia, Russia, Russia. Again, here we go with the Russia. There’s never been anybody so tough on Russia with the sanctions. Remember Obama would send pillows. I sent tank busters right to Ukraine. I’m the one that exposed the pipeline with Germany. Germany pays them billions and billions of dollars. And then we’re supposed to protect Germany from Russia. I said, “How does that work? How does that work? You’re spending billions of dollars for energy to Russia.”
It’s all okay. I’m the one that exposed it. What I’ve done … Hey, they don’t want me to go. But if you look, they don’t want me to win. Russia doesn’t want … Maybe North Korea does because I actually have a very good relationship with him. And speaking of North Korea and you know, it’s okay to have really. You don’t have to go to wars. We don’t have to lose our great soldiers.
It’s good. If I got along with Putin. Somebody said “He gets along well with Putin.” I’m saying to myself, “But isn’t that sort of a good thing? Is that bad.” “He gets along with Putin. That’s a bad thing.” But you saw the head of the FBI yesterday started going Russia. Russia is looking at our election. Russia. Here we go again. Russia, Russia, Russia.
I said, “What about China? What about North Korea? What about Iran? What about … ” They don’t mention anybody else. The narrative seems to be Russia. Millions of phone calls made not one to Russia. Millions of phone calls received not one to Russia. Then he goes, “Russia, Russia.” Then they asked him about Antifa. What do you think about Antifa? “Well, it’s an ideology.” I said, “No, it’s not. It’s a bunch of thugs and anarchists that are being funded by somebody and find out who the somebody is.”
It’s unbelievable. Unbelievable when you look at this stuff. But seriously, take a look at the AOC. I call it AOC plus three. Her three people that she tells what to do. And $2,000,000. Dresses, rent, other things. You’re not supposed to do that. Mr. Congressman, are you allowed to do that Sir? You don’t do that. You don’t buy dresses do you? If he does that’s the end of his career right?
No. But it’s terrible. Right John? It’s terrible. Will prosecute him. I mean, why not? I don’t understand it. I’ll tell you what. One friend of mine, very sophisticated guy, very successful guy called me up. He says, “You know. From the day you came down the escalator with our great First Lady, our future First Lady.” He said “From that day the people love her. She gave a great speech at the Republican National Convention at The White House. She gave a great speech.” But said “From the day you came down the escalator with our First Lady. From the single day you’ve been under investigation. You’ve been under investigation by sleazebags. People that now we caught, cleaned up their phones.”
You’re not allowed to do that. Right Mr.. Congressman? My great hockey player. You’re the greatest. Right? But you’re not allowed to do that. You know? We want their phones. “Oh, here they are. Oh, by the way, they happen to be totally deleted.” Like Hillary with the 33,000 emails she deleted.
I think they should look at that. Now even if they don’t find them. And I do believe they’re in the state department. I do believe they’re in the FBI. I do believe they’re in the FBI. But even if you forget about it, she said she had 33,000 emails. And the emails were for her yoga lessons. She’s not big into yoga [inaudible 00:05:09]. If she is, she’s not getting her money worth. Her yoga lessons and her daughter’s wedding. Right? So it was about the wedding and the yoga lessons.
So I said, “Okay, let’s give her five or six each.” What do you think, Mike? Five or six each. Five for the wedding. Make it 30. Make it a hundred. Make it a thousand. A thousand for the wedding. And for the yoga, let’s give her 200. Okay. What about all those thousands and thousands of emails. Probably classified. So Congress … So forget about it. Let’s assume they’re gone because she deleted them and then she acid washed them. And then she hit her phones with a hammer.
I get rid of phones. I’ve never hit him with a hammer. Not even as President. I say, “Yeah. Throw the phone away.” No, no. I’ve never hit a phone. Has anybody ever gotten rid of your phone and taken a hammer and wiped the hell out of it? I don’t think so.
So she gets a subpoena from the U S Congress. Not in a lawsuit against some guy that hates you and you’re fighting and you’re fighting or something. By the way you do that, you’ve got problems in court, big problems. But she gets a subpoena from Congress. U.S. subpoena, the most important subpoena you can get. They get the subpoena. And after she gets the subpoena, by a few days everything is deleted. Her phones are busted up and cleaned and wiped. And everything’s gone.
And nothing happens to her. Forget about what was on. Now think of how angry it makes me when I see it. Now how angry? Could you imagine if I’d do that it’s a whole different ball game. Know how angry it makes me when I see it.
And we had an attorney general that didn’t have a clue. That was my fault. I was loyal to somebody. Endorsed me early. You know whey he endorsed me? Because I went to Mobile, Alabama. We had 55,000 people show up at a stadium. He said, “I’d like to endorse you.” Then after we won, he said, “I’d love to be attorney general.” And I said, “No, I don’t think so.” But after four or five times asking, I’m a loyal person and I did it. The mistakes sometimes you make is because of loyalty, but that’s okay.
But allowed her to get away with that is a disgrace. Maybe there’s something they can do. So forget about looking for the emails. And they are available. And I guarantee they’re in the State Department. I guarantee you they’re in the state department that ought to damn well find them. They’re being protected in the State Department.
But forget about that. Almost as good is the fact that you’re not allowed to do what she did and her lawyers should pay, Kendall should pay, equal consequence. Equal consequence. Equal. But that’s the way it is. But we are making a lot of progress if you see what’s going on. I said to myself, “I’m going to stay uninvolved. I don’t have to. Chief Law Enforcement Officer, can you believe it? But I think it’s better if I stay uninvolved.” And I have stayed uninvolved and we do have an excellent Attorney General. Bill Barr. And I’ll be honest, he’s a smart guy. I think he’s getting tougher and tougher and tougher every day. I think he’s not going to put up with this stuff. I don’t think. And you know he’s got a lot of people that are deep staters, whatever you want to call them. They fight him at every turn. They fight him, fight him, fight him. But he’s getting tougher and tougher. I watched over the last three days, I’m saying, “Wow, that’s sort of what we’re all waiting for. Right?”
But she deletes her emails. AOC gets rid of $2,000, 000. Gets rid of it. Nothing happens. Nothing happens. And then she goes around and calls us all like what the hell are we? And she controls Nancy Pelosi. Actually Nancy Pelosi would love to get rid of her I think.
How about Pelosi? Pelosi goes out and says, “You know. I think I have my hair done.” So she goes out and she goes into this beauty parlor. I told the story in Wisconsin last night.
By the way, we had that great crowd in Wisconsin. You have a feeling about places. You know the problem with Minnesota is that I think since 1972, this hasn’t been won by a Republican. So, you’re a little behind the eight ball when you hear that. Right? I mean, I can understand. And Wisconsin rarely. But I won Wisconsin. Unlike Minnesota thank you very much. Thank you very much, Tom. Thank you. Unlike Minnesota.
But it’s my fault. So I had one speech left. It started at one in the morning. I went to Michigan, we won Michigan. That was another one. Great state. We brought back so many auto companies into Michigan. We brought them back. But I had one. It was already voting day. It was election day. Because by the time I got there it was just scheduled. Had I made that one damn stop to your state we would have won Minnesota. I lost by what? A half a point. Half a point.
But I get off the plane and they said, “He’s in Minnesota. He’s down nine.” The recent poll. Down nine. I believe it’s a suppression poll. And you know, I have an instinct about things pretty much. Somebody said “Trump has the greatest political instincts of the last 100 years.” One of my enemies said that. And I said, “No, I don’t.” I don’t believe I do. I think I have lousy political instincts.” But what am I going to tell you? Let me just say they said that. And I was very impressed by the statement.
In fact, I went to my wife I said, “You know, they say I have the greatest political instincts in over a hundred years.” And I said, “But I don’t believe it. I don’t.” I don’t want to be Beto. Remember Beto? “I was born to run for president.” That was the end of his career. Beto O’Rourke who’s in charge of guns.
By the way, he’s going to take your guns away. You know that, right? Biden. Sleepy Joe. Sleepy Joe is going to take your guns away. Remember Beto on the cover of a really crummy magazine. I won’t mention the name. They’ve got a lot of bad magazines out there. The good news is most of them are dying. If not all of them.
But Beto O’Rourke, he did the story and he was going to defeat Ted Cruz. He was going to do all these things. Ted beat him. And I helped a lot too. I was with Ted all the way. And I think Ted’s appreciated it. But I even said, “I’m putting Ted Cruz as one of the people for the Supreme Court.” Right?
And you know why I did it? You know why I did it? Because I wanted to make sure that I had somebody on a list we had about 45 unbelievable people, unbelievable. The smartest, the best. The absolute creme de la creme, right? The best minds in the country. Conservative. They believe in the constitution. Little things like that. But I said, “You know. I have to have somebody that we’re going to make sure we get approved.” And the only one I could think of is Ted, because he’s going to get 50 Republican votes and he’s going to get 50 Democrat votes. They’ll do anything to get them out of the Senate.
But I joke when I say that to Ted. But I say it all the time. Ted is the only man I know could get a hundred votes from the Senate. Every single Senator is going to vote for him. But he’s a great guy. And he’s a brilliant guy. And he’s been great. He’s been really great. I kid, when I say that. But one of the things we’ve done that’s so good is the Supreme court. We have two Supreme court justices. We will have at the end of my term, approximately 300 federal judges and [inaudible 00:45:09]. Right?
So anyway, but just to finish, there’s no way that I’m nine points down. I look at a crowd. So they say instinct, right? So I look at a crowd and whether I have good instinct or not, this is not the crowd of somebody that’s going to finish second in the state to a Sleepy Joe. Finish second to a guy that cannot put two sentences together. Now it is an ideology. It doesn’t matter. I could put that broken piece of wood right there. I could put that out. And it’s the same thing as Joe. It’s just an ideology. It’s just an idea.
Now, historically, we have the biggest gap in enthusiasm of any campaign that they’ve ever opposed. You heard that. Like 36 points. In other words, they’ve got no enthusiasm for him. I have tremendous enthusiasm as we can tell. But he does have enthusiasm to beat Trump. His only enthusiasm is put anybody in there. Right? Put anybody in there. He does have enthusiasm to beat Trump. Nothing for him, but to beat Trump. Okay.
But historically that never wins. When somebody has to rely on winning because of somebody as opposed to winning because people love you, people respect you … And Sean Hannity did something the other night. He said to this man, “If you owned a McDonald’s hamburger stand in a reasonably busy area, would you have Joe Biden running that stand?” The answer is no. He doesn’t have the energy. He doesn’t. So he can’t run the country.
No, seriously. I thought it was good. I never thought of it. You wouldn’t have him running your business. You wouldn’t have him running a McDonald’s. I have to say or a Wendy’s. I have a friend he owns Wendy’s. He always gets up. Ken, you haven’t mentioned Wendy’s? Okay. But you know you wouldn’t do it because he couldn’t do it. And yet he’s running for the presidency. He’s got no energy.
I made a comment that somebody had low energy. That was the end of his political career. But Joe’s energy is far lower. It’s far lower. No, it’s far lower than Jeb. Jeb was on the low side. But Joe, he’s off the scale. Right? Joe’s got nothing going. Today Biden delivered remarks, barely, to a union after spending 47 years giving their jobs to China and foreign countries in exchange for campaign cash. How about his statement?
Hey, we talk about AOC being crooked. She’s a hundred percent crooked. Okay. But were talking about that. Look at Omar. She came in here. Did she marry her brother? Where’s that writer? That writer should be given the Pulitzer prize. He never will be. He should be though.
You know the amazing thing, all of these writers, New York Times, Washington Post, right? Russia, Russia, Russia. Trump. Russia, Russia, Russia. I had 19 people. All brilliant. All radical left. All Hillary people. Actually not even a never Trumper from Bush. Okay. All Hillary Clinton people mostly, almost everyone. They were all Democrats. How about this? You’re being investigated by 19 Democrats that are smart people. Okay? Smart people.
So my friend says, “You know, you are the most honest person in the world. And you’ve taken three years of total investigation.” You don’t think they’ve gone over my taxes. They went over at the biggest tax firm in the country. The most prestigious. They went over everything. They spend 48 million as it comes out now. It’s about $48,000,000 investigating me before I won and after I won. And we caught them spying on my campaign. That’s what they were really doing.
And now with the phones, I think there’s like 22 or 24 people. You heard this one? They said, “No, no, no. We made a mistake when we deleted our phone.” You know what they had to do to make that mistake? Like 19 different formulas. Right? I don’t even know how you delete a phone. I didn’t know you could do it. But they all made the exact same mistake. That’s not good. That’s not good. So let’s see what happens to them. It’s a criminal act you know that, right? It’s a criminal act. It’s criminal.
Weissman’s a bad guy. Put a lot of people in jail that shouldn’t be in jail, Weissman. He’s a bad guy. He’s on CNN all the time or MSNBC which I call it MSDNC. Because it’s the same thing. Owned by a company called Concast. Did anyone ever hear … With an N, not an M. Con like a con job. Concast. They a fortune on public relations. Comcast has delivered you the news, all the news. And they spend a fortune. And then I go up and make one speech and I call them Concast And that’s the end of the PR for the year.
They are a bad group of people. They’re sick. I mean, they’re sick people. They’re sick and evil people and they want bad things for our country and they don’t report the news. You know, in the old days, when you used public airways free, you had to get a license. I keep saying, “If they’re reporting fake news, how come they can keep getting a license?” Whether it’s ABC, whether it’s NBC, CBS, or of course, CNN. Which is I mean one of the great jokes of all time, CNN. Or MSDNC. But they’re cable so I guess there’s a different standard.
But when you’re using the public airwaves free. Okay? Free. Aren’t you supposed to get licensed? So I asked my people that. I ask a couple of guys and I never really get an answer. I just want to know a simple question. Do you have to report the truth when you using free airwaves and making a fortune with commercials and everything else. And I never get the right answer because there are people down deep. It’s crazy. But we’re getting down to all of it.
A lot of progress has been made. I think you’re starting to see it. We’re trying to beat a terrible group of deep state people. You know I came to Washington … Think of it, think of it. I came to Washington and I had 24 years of putting people in office. And then you can probably add another four to that. And another four to that. I had many, many years, decades of people putting … So I came. Been to Washington I guess 17 times I never stayed over. Right? Never slept over. I was there 17 times.
I tell the story. I was in Washington and my entire life, DC, 17 times. Never slept over ever not once. And all of a sudden I’m riding down Pennsylvania Avenue and I’m with a beautiful woman on my right named Melania. Think of this. And I had about 400 motorcycles in front of me. And we’re in a cavalcade of about 128 cars. Most of them having about 15 sub machine guns inside. There’s more firepower [inaudible 00:20:13].
But we’re riding down the beautiful Pennsylvania Avenue. And I look outside at those police. I love our police. We’ve got to treat our police better. I had everything. I had police. I had military. I had soldiers. I had everything you could possibly have. You never saw so much how power and strength and beauty. The beauty.
And they were so proud. They’re all saluting, they’re so proud. They’re happy to have gotten rid of that crowd that was there before us. They’re proud. They’re great. The police. You know, every single police force I think endorsed me. I got the one yesterday from Chicago. That’s not easy. Chicago endorsed me. New York’s finest endorsed me. Florida. Ohio. I mean, everybody. I don’t know that he’s gotten one vote. Then he says he can’t mention the words law and order.
But I’m driving down the street. And I look at my wife, I say, “Do you believe it? I’m the president of the United States? [inaudible 00:53:18] Can you believe it? And then I get to the most beautiful house in the world. I can have Mar-a-Largo and all of them. But I’ll tell you The White House is still The White House, no matter how you do it.
And I get to this gorgeous, beautiful place. And I’m up at the incredible suite level and there’s Abraham Lincoln’s suite. It’s called the Lincoln bedroom. Remember Clinton used to lease it out to people for money. They never change do they. Remember when Barbara Streisand, she’s another beauty, by the way. But remember Barbara Streisand used to stay in that suite? Which was the only problem I had with it. But tell me … No, but I do like her voice. I do. I really do. Some of them I don’t like even their voices. But she used to stay there.
And I’m standing in the Lincoln bedroom. The history of the whole thing. The bed, the desk, the Gettysburg address, the beautiful four score and seven years ago. This beautiful Gettysburg address. He wrote it there. And also on his carriage ride up to Gettysburg. He delivered the Gettysburg address and they say the only one that got worse press than I did was Abraham Lincoln. Did anyone ever hear that? And I said, “No way they got worse. Maybe he got bad. But no way he gets worse.”
Now people are starting to say, “It’s probably true. I think you’ve got the worst.” Now they used to say, “No, no.” Newt Gingrich, great guy. He said, “Nope, Abraham Lincoln got the worst press. They were worse to him than anybody. He was a very depressed person. His wife was very depressed.” It was a depressed kind of a thing. He’s in a war, he’s in a revolution. And he was getting beaten a lot by Robert E. Lee. They want to rip his statue down all over the place. But Robert E. Lee whether you like statues or not, they don’t rip statues down anymore. I signed a law. 10 years in jail if they rip them down.
But Robert E. Lee won many, many battles in a row and it was supposed to be over in one day. It was supposed to end immediately because the North was too powerful for the South. But it just shows when you have leaders, when you have a great general. And Robert E. Lee, he would have won except for Gettysburg. And that was because his general was killed who’s going to lead Gettysburg. Never fight uphill, me boys. Never fight uphill. He heard they were going up hill. Stop them, stop them. But we had no cell phones in that day, right? Congressmen? No cell phones.
So they sent the horses to stop him. Stop him. But it was too late. They fought uphill and they got slaughtered. That’s what happened. But Robert E. Lee these were incredible things. But I hope you appreciate that we had a period of time when they were ripping down all of the statues and monuments. And I said to my people four months ago, I said, “This is crazy. These people.”
And they don’t even know. They started ripping down Abraham Lincoln. When they hit Lincoln I said, “Wait a minute. This is the man. And you can’t do …” Then they hit George Washington, Thomas Jefferson. They hit everybody. They even had Gandhi. All Gandhi wanted was one thing. Peace. May we have peace. Rip down the statue we don’t like it. I don’t think they have any idea what they’re doing. I think they’re just a bunch of thugs. Okay? You want to know that? I think they are a bunch of thugs.
They were going to March on Washington and they were going to rip down a statue of Abraham Lincoln. You know the exact statute. Its up very nicely. Up now. And by the way, they can take them down legally. They go through Congress as a way of doing it. But they didn’t want to do it that way. And they were marching on Washington. And I said, “Do we have any laws about this?” They said, “No, sir.”
Now in Congress, the way it is now, the most you get is about a $10 fine. You rip down a $5 million statue and you got a $10 fine. Right? It’s different world. That’s when it was strong and they had laws. But we told and found this old act. And the old act said, if you rip down a monument or a statue, you get 10 years in prison. They call it prison, not jail, which sounds even worse. I said, “Bring that sucker up immediately to the Oval Office because there are a lot of people coming to Washington.”
They were going to March on the Jefferson Memorial. Do you believe that? The Jefferson Memorial. We grow up … The Jefferson Memorial. They were going to March on the Jefferson Memorial. They were going to do damage to our beautiful Jefferson Memorial after Thomas Jefferson.
And I did predict that. A friend of mine said, “You know, two years ago you said, next will be Robert E. Lee and then comes Washington. And Jefferson and Lincoln. They’d never stop. The only thing they understand is strength. Remember that.” They don’t understand weakness. There’s nothing you can do. These really stupid heads of these corporations that give hundreds of millions of dollars. It’s like blackmail money, right? But these stupid people that run, they get $40,000,000 a year and they’re weak. Okay, they’re weak. But these people, they’re anarchists and the only thing they understand is strength.
So I said, “Let me see this document.” I said, “Wow, this is a very strong document.” And Derek is here. One of my attorneys, he did a great job. I don’t know where the hell Derek is. He’s around here. Actually he’s heard this before though. Not quite.
You’re getting a very unique speech tonight. You know? I mean unlike Joe, I haven’t even looked at the teleprompter. This guy will “Move it up. Move it up. I can’t see. Move it up.” I haven’t looked at it. The poor teleprompter guy he’s sitting there “What do we do? We’re on line two of the teleprompter.” He said, “What do we do?” No, unlike Joe, I have not looked at the teleprompter.
Oh, that poor Joe. You know what’s the worst part about him looking at the teleprompter? The worst part is that means that the fake news media is giving him the questions. Right? Like Donna Brazil, who was brilliantly hired by Fox. Fox has changed a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, Donna Brazil, who was fired by CNN because she cheated and she gave crooked Hillary the questions to the debate.
How would you like to be me? They give her questions to the debate. And I still won the debate and she had all the questions. Think of it. How do you do that? Donna Brazil is, ladies and gentlemen, she’s going to work for Fox. Oh, that’s great. That’s big difference. Big difference between four years ago and now. A lot of things have changed.
But I’ll tell you what’s changed is the fact that we have more enthusiasm now than we did four years ago. It’s amazing right? But just to get back to the others. So I signed that wonderful executive order instituting this really tough law. And it says 10 years. It doesn’t say, you get 10 years, but you can take it down to three weeks. It says 10 years.
So these guys had just gotten there. I had a news conference because I had to let them know about it. Right? We’ve got many people in jail right now from before nobody even talked about taking statues down. No, but I looked at the Andrew Jackson right? With the ropes. And I’ll tell you, the police did a great job. And Mark Meadows did a great job. He said, “Charge.” They charged.
And they took these guys out and they were fairly tough. But the police were much tougher. DC police. They did a great job. They were watching and they weren’t able to do anything. Mark Meadows said “Charge.” It was like from 200 years ago it was crazy. They charged and they’d beat the hell out of these guys. Or you wouldn’t have that great statue on the horse of a great general. He was a great general. And he was a very good president. At least a good president. But he was a great general. The battle of New Orleans. Right?
And they had this incredible picture of Andrew Jackson. And they were going to rip it down. And remember the ropes wrapped around the horse and the guy standing up there just [inaudible 01:01:55]. He went to jail too. We had all the evidence we needed. Thank you for that. I want to thank you fake news. We called the fake news. We said “Can we just have that please?” When they said, no, we just said, “We’ll take it off TiVo. That’s okay. Don’t worry about it.” One of the greatest inventions in history. Tivo better than television because television is useless without it.
So, we signed it. And all of a sudden these same guys who were watching it, they left. Nobody showed up the next day. They’re going to have 25,000 people. They had 24 people, 5 of them were brought to prison. Okay. And the next day they said, “Well, we were going to save it for Saturday night.” And Saturday night nobody showed up. And nobody has showed up in four months to take down a statue. It’s true.
Because you know why? They look and they say, “I want to take down that statue. I’m going to take down that statue. That statue’s coming down.” And then somebody says, “You know it’s 10 years in jail.” They go, “That’s too much. I’m getting out of here.” It’s true. Ten years is not acceptable, Mike. Right? Ten years is a lot to rip down a statue, have a little fun, especially when they have no idea what they’re ripping down. But we have an idea what they’re ripping down. They’re ripping down in many cases, greatness. They’re ripping down our past. They’re ripping down our history.
And that’s where these guys begin. They take away your history. You look at the Middle East, you look all over. Look what ISIS did. Look what all of them do. They go down and they rip. They go into museums and they break everything and they rip everything. They want to take away your past. They’re not taking away the past of the United States of America. Not as long as I’m here.
What do you want? Do you want me to go back on teleprompter anybody? Okay. Here’s the question. My poor guy must be having a fit. He’s over there. He’s so good at this stuff. He’s on line three.
… Good at this stuff. He’s on line three. He said, “Sir, should I use turn the sucker off? Would you rather go teleprompter or freelance?” Isn’t it nice when you have the option because you have this and you have the option to go either? See, Joe doesn’t have the option. He doesn’t have the option. But if Biden wins, China wins, and it’s very simple. It’s very simple. By contrast, I rescued the Minnesota Iron Range, I did that.
Just so you know, O-Biden. I call him O-Biden, it’s too long to say Obama and Biden, so I just go, O-Biden, because I don’t care about… Everyone said, “Oh no, he’s in trouble. Obama’s now campaigning.” Hey, he campaigned last time harder than Hillary. I said, “No, I want him to campaign because he brings out the base.” He brings out our base. And I’m only here because of him and Joe.
If they were a good president and vice president, I wouldn’t be here. I had a very good life before. I’m doing this because they did such a [inaudible 01:05:14] job. I’m only here because of him. I could right now be having a very beautiful life of luxury, and here I am at the hangar in Minnesota with 15 or 20 or 25,000 people. And thousands of people that couldn’t get in, and I’m working my ass off. I could be at home having a good time, wonderful time. But the one thing I said is-
We want trump. We want Trump. We want Trump.
But I say this. I say this look, I could be home. So home was New York. I had to bail out because it was too crazy, everything has fallen apart. But home, it’s so sad what the democrats have done to our great New York. Between a governor and a mayor, the crime is through the roof, the corruption is incredible, it’s a sad thing that’s happened to New York. Hopefully it’ll come back by somebody. Somebody will go in there and do like a Rudy.
You know when Rudy took over, it was so bad and they were looking for somebody and they thought he was the guy because he was a tough guy. But somebody has to go in and clean it up. This mayor, he let go of a billion dollars worth of police. He actually believed the nonsense about defunding the police. And they’re all going to do it. They’re all going to do it. And New York people are going to do it. I’m being totally serious now. You’ve got to go out and you’ve got to vote for Trump. You got to break this spell from 1972. You saw Kenosha. What we did for other places, you saw the Kenosha, and that was gone. That was all gone. That place was gone. We sent in the troops, it was incredible what we did, and they did it on day three. Day three is better than two weeks later, like in Minneapolis. But they did it, and we’ve done a great job and the people of that great state, they understand it, and I just hope the people of your state of Minnesota understand it because we don’t have too many more chances with this stuff. We really don’t. We don’t have the luxury of sitting back and saying, “Let’s have four years of this maniac, vice president that he picked who treated him worse than any other person.
That’s why I say the one person that he won’t pick… My great instincts, right? The one person he won’t pick is Kamala because she called him a racist, she tried to me-too him. He was me-too’d. “I’ve just been me-too’d Darling, what does that mean?” But they tried to me-too him. And she was the one that brought it up.
Remember Tara? She was the one that brought it up, and then he goes, “Ladies and gentlemen, I’d like to pick… Wait a minute, let me get her name here. How do you pronounce it? It’s with a comma, like a comma, right? Like a comma.” Remember he couldn’t pronounce her name? He was saying her name wrong, and she had to interrupt him. No, my name is Kamala. Like comma. I remember that. Like a comma. H1N1, that’s right, Joe. Remember that Joe, H1N1.
And how bad did he do in that though? How about that? How bad did he do? So come to think of it, he’s out there now today. It was pathetic. By the way, did you see the Anderson Cooper thing last night? You have to watch. I don’t want to watch, but I have an obligation. I’m competing against somebody. You don’t want to compete and say, “I’m not going to watch my competition, who wouldn’t?” It’s boring, but I got to watch.
And he got through it. He met a couple of really… The chicken thing was bad. He said chicken many, many times, and it was a little strange that I thought it was over and he pulled it back. He was able to pull it back. But Anderson is a… And he interviewed me, he’s tough. You know, he can be tough, nothing against him. He could be very tough, but last night he was in rare form. He was, “Thank you very much for being here, Mr. Vice President, are you enjoying the run?”
And compare that with my shot, where they asked me about doing ABC with George Stephanopoulos. I think it was great. I think it worked out great. You know what I call it? Debate prep. I call that free debate prep. But you know it’s nasty, it’s a little nasty that people… and I didn’t say, “No, you got to change the rules. No, give me the questions. I want to use a teleprompter to answer.” How about that though? Mr. Vice President, I’d like to know your feeling on nuclear warfare and how does that relate to China and Russia and where are they in the race?
Well, you can’t have this as your president. I don’t care. Forget about me. You can’t do this. The importance and the power of this position are too great. You can’t do it. I’ve learned a lot as president. But one thing I learned is that President Xi of China is sharp. You ever see him standing with the two million men walking in front, everybody’s the same height, they’re wearing hats, everyone’s like a pool table, right?
And he’s standing there by himself, and he’s looking like he’s not playing games. There’s no games, he’s sharp as you can be. And I had a great relationship, but now I feel differently. We made a great trade deal, and now I feel differently. But he’s a sharp as you can be. Putin as sharp as you can be. Kim Jong Un, we would have been in a war with North Korea 100%.
I asked Obama, “Did you ever call him?” He said that was the toughest problem we had. And we get along. Remember about a month ago, two months ago, they broke into the demilitarized zone and they said, “Oh, he’s going to attack.” I said, “No, he’s not. Don’t worry about it.” I got to know him very well. We have a good relationship. People said, “He has a good relationship with Kim Jong Un, that’s terrible.” I said, “No, that’s good.”
But you remember it was going to be a nuclear war, and I got along with him. Then they said, “Trump made a terrible deal. He’s given so much to North Korea.” What did I give? I was at like a semi debate with his idiot, a reporter. “He’s given a lot to North Korea.” “What did I give?” “I don’t know.” Sanctions, sanctions. You took away. No, I didn’t. Actually, I increased the sanctions very substantially. What did you give? What did I give? Tell me. So after about four days they couldn’t ask because I gave nothing except I gave heart because I don’t want to see people killed on their side either. I don’t want to see people killed.
We’d win that. We’d win them all. We have the greatest weapons right now ever conceived by man. We’ve rebuilt our military to a level that nobody ever thought possible. And then the fake news. And I said that a couple of weeks ago, remember I said, “We have created the most powerful weapons known to man.” It’s true. We have weapons that are so advanced that President Xi, Putin, everybody, we’re the envy of the world.
But they don’t know quite what we have, but they know we have stuff that they never even heard of before. And some schmuck back there said, “I think he’s given away classified information.” Now, all I’m doing is telling the world, we have the most powerful weapons in the world. I’m not even saying what kind. You don’t even want to know about it. And God help us if we ever have to use them. But we have the most powerful weapons ever conceived by man. They have the missile, the super-duper, hydro sonic, I call it the super-duper, it goes five times faster than a normal missile, right?
We have one goes much faster than that. But Russia got that information from the Obama administration. Russia stole that information. You knew that. Russia got the information and they built it. But we have now one that’s much faster than that. That’s like a slow missile. That’s like considered a slow missile.
But I said it was incredible. Two weeks ago I said, “We have the finest, the best, the most incredible, sadly, the most deadly, and we never want to use it, but we have the greatest weapons ever in history by a factor of 10, by a factor of 10.” And they went crazy. “He’s given away classified.” These people are sick. All I’m doing is saying that we rebuilt our military $2.5 trillion all built in the USA, every single ounce of it.
We have fighter jet, F-35 that are so good, you can’t see it. And I went to see the program, and I met some of the pilots and these guys are better looking than Tom Cruise. They’re tougher. They’re stronger. They’re bigger. They’re more powerful. They’re smarter. And I like Tom cruise by the way, because you can’t get much better than Top Gun, right? Great movie. You can’t get better. I like Tom cruise. But these guys are better looking than Tom. They got that crew cut, they got the crap under their eyes, they got the whole deal. They’re smart as hell.
So I said, “So captain, let me ask you, how good is the F-35?” “They’re really good Sir, best plane we’ve ever had all great.” I said, “How do you compare that with what Russia has?” “Well, ours is better for a specific reason, Sir. You can’t see it.” “What does that mean?” “Well, when we fight, they cannot see us, that we are so stealth.”
Now that doesn’t mean in three years that it won’t be obsolete because that’s what happens. That’s the problem with that business. You come up with a new computer and two weeks later it’s obsolete. That’s why I always like real estate, and grab a piece of real estate. But no, it’s true. I wouldn’t be good in that business. You get to work, work, work, and then you’re starting the next one because the last one is gone. That’s why I always talk about walls and wheels.
When the Democrats were saying, “Walls are old fashioned.” Well, they’re right about that. But they work. Remember that? All we had to go through in Congress? And that wall is going up, think of that. We’re building 10 miles a week, 10 miles a week of the top. And our numbers on the border are the best they’ve ever been. The best they’ve ever been.
Well, we’re building 10 miles of wall a week. We’re up to about 330 miles, and we’ll have it finished very soon, and it’s having a tremendous impact on drugs. It’s having a tremendous impact on all of the different things. Human trafficking in women. It’s not even children.
They’re trafficking women, it’s because of the internet. You think of that as almost an ancient kind of a crime, right? But it’s not. It’s a very modern crime and it’s an unbelievably profitable crime. They’re trafficking women, little bit children, but mostly women. Where they’ll put three or four women in the back in the trunk of a car and they’ll go through the border. They can’t do it anymore. And we’re catching them. We have people that do nothing but look for the traffickers. To me, the traffickers are the biggest scum of the world.
And thank heavens for ICE, and thank heavens for border patrol because these people do a job that you don’t want. I know Mike doesn’t want it. You wouldn’t even be good at it, Mike, he’ll do a commercial about it. That’s what he’ll do. Does he have the longest commercials in history? I say, Mike Lindell. I say, Mike, the pillow man. I say, Mike is the single greatest purchaser of commercials in history. I want him to buy my commercials.
I say, “You know, we spent $20 million, I sell like two commercials.” He spends $2 and he’s got the whole day on Fox. I said, let Mike buy our commercials. Will you? I don’t know what the hell you do, but whatever it is, you better tell me the secret. Greatest purchaser of commercials.
But we have done some job with that. And the traffickers and drugs are way down. Now we got upset with the pandemic, but I watched Biden today talking about, “If only Trump moved one week sooner. One week.” So let’s go, ready? So, you know he was against the ban, right? Because he didn’t think we had a problem. So he was against the ban. He didn’t know that China was heavily infected. He doesn’t even know where China is, in my opinion.
But he was against the ban. These guys write stuff out for him, and he tries to read it. Doesn’t do well with it. So he was against it, but now his new thing is, if only I moved one week earlier, but I was earlier than everybody. If you think about it. I had nice guy, Dr. Fauci, I had another nice, got a lot of doctors. They were all telling me, “No, no, you don’t have to do that.” Tom knows that very well. “You don’t have to do that, Sir. You don’t have to do that. You don’t have to do that at all.”
And one of those things, I was very early and I banned and everybody admits that had I not banned highly infected Wuhan province, right? Highly infected, we would have had hundreds of thousands of more deaths. And then you had the chart. I put it up yesterday, I’m doing these news conferences. We’re finally getting the word across that we did a great job, but I’m doing news conferences now every day.
I call them the highly rated news conferences. And I go before these crazy people, they’re screaming like maniacs. It’s not the way they treat Sleepy Joe. He’d melt. If they ever did a number on, this guy would be there he’d be laying on the floor crying, “Get me out of here, Darling. Where is my wife? Get me out of here, please, Darling. They’re so nasty to me today. What happened?” We go through it every single day.
But you think about it, and he said, “If only Trump moved faster,” but he’s the one that two months later called me xenophobic, and he called me a racist because I was banning China, which was heavily infected. And then he said, “Don’t ban Europe.” Well, I looked at Italy, big problem. I love Italy. I love the people of Italy, but they were heavily infected. France, I looked at France, I looked at Spain, they even had spikes recently. Did you see?
And we’re doing great. We’re rounding it with or without, but we’re going to have with, but you know, with his better, but with or without, we’re rounding that corner, and we’re rounding it fast and they don’t want to give us any credit because they want to keep this up ’til November 4th. And on November 4th, the press will probably say, let’s say something stupid happened. The press will say, “I got to admit he did a damn good job.” And the other clown will be in office. We did a thing called price transparency. I signed it. It’s effective, also very complicated. It’s on your medical. And we did price transparency. It’s the biggest thing. It’s bigger than healthcare. Where you see your prices. You can go now to hospitals, you can price operations, you can price everything. It’s a massive thing.
The man who did it… And I took a lot of heat, and I’m doing favorite nations drugs, meaning whatever the lowest in the world is, we have to pay the same. That’s the good news. The bad news is the drug companies, the doctors everybody’s angry at me. Actually under price transparency, the good hospitals and the good doctors benefit tremendously, but the bad ones don’t, and you have price transparency. And it goes into effect on January 1st. Could you imagine if this sleepy guy gets in and they say like, February, March, April something. They say unbelievable what happened to prices, it’s dropping like crazy.
And they’ll say, what a job he’s doing this president? And I’m the one that signed it. I said, could you put it into effect but statutorily? It has to mature, mature, mature. So the earliest I could get is January 1st. It’s like crazy. You know another one? I’ll give you another one. I’ll give you another one. So Air Force One, so that’s the 757, but they have a 747, which is the big Air Force One.
I think that just disrespected the people of Minnesota today, they gave us the little one. No, actually it’s because of the runway. In fact, when we landed, they said, “Sir, we have a very short runway, could you please hold on? I said, “I trust these pilots.” By the way, these pilots are the best pilots. When you fly the president of the United States.
Wait a minute, he’s waving from the window. When you fly the president of the United States, you are the best flyer. They take the best air force guys, they take the best Marines in the helicopters, Marine One. But when you’re flying these planes, you can land that sucker, you have no problem. There’s no, mishits. There’s no, “Let’s go around. I can’t quite make it, Sir.” These guys are phenomenal. You’ve got to see what they look like. Everyone’s in perfect shape. I look at him, central casting, every one of them they’re great. Thank you fellas. Thank you.
But I’ll tell you a little story. So Air Force One is a very old plane. It’s beautiful, but it’s an old 747, right? It’s 31 years old and other people didn’t want to do it, but it was time to get a new one. It was time. You got to get a new plane. And actually Air Force One, I’ll give you a little secret, it’s actually two planes. They get two. It’s a hell of a way to travel. If one’s not working perfect, you use the other one. But they get two.
So Air Force One, they negotiated a price and they had it down for $5.7 billion, that was not sounds expensive, and it’s ridiculous, but that was done by the Obama administration. It was done by the Obama administration. And that’s okay. But no administration Obama, Bush, they didn’t want to do it because it sounds luxury. But at some point you got to buy a plane for the country. And these Arab countries would have their beautiful 747, 800s, 900s pour in, and they were gorgeous.
And believe it or not, the new plane is a much bigger plane. Much bigger wingspan, it’s a much more beautiful plane, it’s modern. I think of a 31 years old, Air Force One is 31 years old, the main Air Force One, not this. This is a great plane, but the big one 31 years old. So you’re representing the country, but they didn’t want to do it because it shows luxury.
So I get to the office, I said, whatever happened to Air Force One, how’s it doing?” “Sir, we made a deal for a new one under the Obama administration.” “Oh, you did, good. How much?” “5.7 billion.” I said, “That’s a lot of money for [inaudible 01:24:27] for two planes, in all fairness. Now it’s very technical, there’s a lot of stuff. I won’t talk about it because I don’t want to give away any classified information. Just trust me, some more sophisticated sucker you’ve ever seen in your life.
I think you’re getting into a plane that cost 5.7 billion. Right? But it’s the most sophisticated, two planes. So I said, “How much is it? A general came, and an air force general, great guy, handsome guy. They’re all so good looking these people. I said, “So general, what are we paying? What’s the price?” ” Sir, it’s $5.7 million and we’re ready to go, Sir, could you sign it?” It sounds like a lot of money to me, General, 5.7 million for two airplanes. Can we get a better price?” “No, sir. This was negotiated by the Obama administration. The Obama administration. This was negotiated, Sir, by Barack Hussein Obama.”
And I said, “Oh, that’s good. It sounds very high. So here’s what I’m going to do. Tell Boeing we’re not taking the plane. We have no interest in, it’s too much.” This is what I did. By the way, this is one of many stories. Isn’t this better than going and saying, “I saved your Iron Range?” And I say, “But please remember I did this too.” And I can do away with this stuff, but I did this too. Please remember that because I have all this list of incredible things I’ve done for Minnesota, I won’t even touch it because frankly I’m tired of repeating what I’ve done for all these different states. I mean, I did all this stuff and then I hear I’m nine down. I don’t believe it by the way, suppression. So I said to the general, I said, “General, 5.7 billion, not million, billion. That sounds very high to me general. I bought a lot of planes in my life and a lot of helicopters. I know a lot about it. How could it be five?” “Sir, that’s the best price they could get. We only have one day to do it.” I said, “Cancel it General. Cancel the order.” It was signed actually. “Yes, Sir.”
I said, “Do you have the right to cancel it?” “Yes, sir. I do.” We negotiated a great deal. I said, “Oh good. Cancel it.” “Yes, sir. I’m pleased to tell you something, Sir. We have a breakup fee. We made a great deal, Sir.” I said, “You did? Oh, you have a breakup fee. You mean you can’t just cancel it for nothing? Then cancel it. You don’t have to pay a breakup fee. I know about breakup fees.” “No, Sir, we have a breakup fee.” “Okay. How much is it?” “Sir, we can break it up for $250 million.”
I said, “Wait a minute. So you mean to tell me that to cancel the order costs $250 million?” In other words, we give them $250 million, we get nothing. I said, “General, don’t cancel the order. Just tell him I’m very unhappy.” This is what these guys. They’re good businessmen, by the way. These guys, right here, Mike, they might be better than you. I don’t even know. He may be the next governor.
Mike Landell, maybe you should run. You should run. He is my complete and total investment. You should run. He’d be a hell of a governor. At least, you know one thing. Minnesota would be well promoted. Mike, run for governor, please. So he says, “It’s $250 million. It’s 250, Sir, I’m so proud of that.” I said, “You may be proud, but I’m not.” So I said, “General, don’t give them notice because I don’t want to write a check for 250 and getting nothing. I don’t think I could explain that to the American public. So tell them you’re really unhappy, we’re not going to make the deal, but just do it verbally.”
And, “Yes, sir.” And then I spoke to the head of Boeing, a very nice guy. They had some rough times since then. They had a couple of really bad things happen. Terrible, really terrible. This was early on before the problems that they had. But he is, he’s a high quality guy. And I said to him, “Dennis, we have to start it with a… It’s got to have a three on the front of it.”
What do I know? I just know that if they’re 5.7, and if I do something with a three. He said, “No, I can bring it down to 5.5 billion.” So I say, “Well, that’s not bad. I save $200 million in about a minute and a half phone call. So so far I’m not good, but it’s not good enough. I’m not happy.” I said, “No, we got to really think about canceling it.” And I can’t go to Airbus, which is made in Europe. It’s a little hard, I got to go to their competitor. I can’t say I’m going to buy the Air Force One from a European company that doesn’t work too well.
My only option was to say, “Look, I just don’t want to just put it aside.” He calls me up a few days later. “Well, we can do a little bit better than that.” I said, “Dennis, has to have a three in front of it, Dennis.” Got to have a three. Like a three, three anything, but got to have a three in front of it. So he said, “No, no, no.” After one month, we signed a contract for $3.9 billion. Same exact one. Actually slightly better, we got an extra generator.
And then Boeing came to me, and I love to negotiate. I do. Got that from my father. My father was a good negotiator and I love to negotiate. So they came to me, “Sir, we can put an extra stairway.” This is the big 747. And remember this is a big, much bigger than the old 747. “Sir, it gets very windy up there. I noticed that your hair’s blown all over the place. But we can buy a stairwell for the plane. And it comes under, it’s like a corkscrew right at the bottom of the plane.” You’re very high off the ground, big, big thing. “And it opens up, and if it’s raining or windy, you’re covered, Sir, because it’s under the plane. You’re totally sheltered.” I said, “That sounds great. So it’s a corkscrew stairwell.”
I said, “How much is that general?” “50.” I said, “50, what a deal, So for $50,000 I can get a stairway?” “No, sir. $50 million.” I said, “Forget about the stairwell. Forget it.” He said 50. I really thought he meant $50,000. So these are just some little stories. I guess I must like Minnesota to go on one of these deals. But boy, did you get your money’s worth tonight? Is anybody having a bad time?
No.
Did you get your money’s worth? Because you’ve heard the other one. We’ve done this, and we’ve cut your taxes, and we built up the military bigger and better. And we’re the number one in history in regulation cuts, which is the biggest thing. And the judges, which we’ve done at a level like nobody’s ever done, everything we’ve done. Nobody has done more in three and a half years, no administration three and a half. Those first three and a half years, nobody even comes close.
And you know, it’s a funny thing. I say it all the time. I’ve been saying it for a long time and the fake news, nobody even questions me about it. And you know if I was wrong, they would, but they can’t question me because when you see right to try, we took care of our vets. We just got a 91% approval rating from the vets 91. It’s never happened before.
We got choice approved, we got accountability approved, drugs are way down. We’ve got a little setback with this whole situation where these shutdowns cause a lot of problems with drugs, a lot of everything, but drugs were way down. We had our best year in the history of our country last year. And we’re going to have a better year coming up. That’s why you have an obligation to vote for the guy that got you there.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
And remember this, and I really appreciate this, thank you. But I appreciate this because nine democrat mayors of cities in the Iron Range have endorsed me over Sleepy Joe. What do you like better? Sleepy Joe or Slow Joe? What’s better? Let’s do a poll. We do a poll. We do a poll. I do free falls. You know, these polls, they charge you a fortune for this stuff. They interviewed three people and then they charge you a million dollars.
We interviewed 233 people, I got thousands of people at least for free. What do you like better as nickname? Slow Joe or Sleepy Joe? So let’s go. Wait, Slow Joe first. Okay? So just scream if you like it. So you have a choice, Slow Joe, they’re both very appropriate. Slow Joe or Sleepy Joe, ready? Slow Joe. I think we’re going to have a winner here. Sleepy Joe.
A lot of people say I’m too nice with Sleepy Joe, that I’m actually being too nice, I don’t know. He’s a sleepy guy, but Biden is going to shut down your Iron Range. Remember, it wasn’t just the tariffs I put on your competitors that were dumping iron ore and steel and everything else in our country like it was garbage. And it was garbage steel. It was all [inaudible 01:33:41] based steel, real crap.
It wasn’t that, but when you think of it, they wrote it out. You didn’t have environmentally the right. Somebody said, “Oh, well he got a bit because he was good with negotiating with these other countries.” It wasn’t that. I opened it up. I signed an order. I signed an executive order because Obama took your Iron Range and Biden took your Iron Range away.
And I’ll never forget. The day I did it, and Tom was there, a man, I don’t know who he is, he’s probably in this massive audience, but he came up to me and he was a rough guy and he never cried in his life, including at childbirth. He didn’t cry at childbirth, but he was crying. And he said, “Sir, you gave our life back to us because Obama took our heart out when he closed up the Iron Range.” He said you gave our heart back.
It’s true. So I just want to thank those cities. When a democrat mayor, and we have now a lot of… Now we have additional. So these are democrat politicians and two weeks ago they endorsed us, and it’s a great thing. We’re finding that all over the country. Democrats for Trump. Politicians that got elected as democrats, I don’t think they changed their party affiliation, but they endorsed Trump. They’re all in the Iron Range area.
And Larry Cuffe is here. Larry Cuffe. Where’s Larry? Where is he? Larry, how are you? Why did you do that, Larry? That’s so nice. I appreciate it. Boy, are you good. I wish you had a mic. He said, “Because you’re the best candidate we could ever…” I love this guy. Said you’re the best candidate we could ever hope for.
Thank you Larry, that’s beautiful. I appreciate it. We’ll do a good job. We’re not going to let you down. And they’re doing a good job over there. So dig in, dig in, dig we must, right?
It’s going because of you.
It’s all going because of me. That’s cool, man. Thank you. No, he signed an executive order shutting it down. Just shutting it down. And I hear it’s got the best iron ore anywhere in the world. That’s what I hear. The quality is the best.
… or anywhere in the world. That’s what I hear. The quality is the best. And it’s like an unlimited amount. I’m talking about a little, this is a massive operation with thousands of people and everything else. And for me, it was very easy. Andrea Zupancich, where is she? Where’s Andrea? Thank you very much. That’s really nice. I’m glad that at least you got a good location, right? That’s great. I appreciate it very much. You’re all friends I guess. Chris Vreeland, where’s Chris? Chris Vreeland. Chris? Where’s Chris? The mayor? Thank you, Chris. Thank you, Chris. Thank you very much. Kathy Brandau. Kathy Brandau. Thank you, Kathy. I hope you’re having a good time tonight. We’re not going to let you down. You know that. We’re open. That sucker is open. We’re not closing it.
Well, think of this though. If Biden gets in, it’s closed. He said he’s going to close it. How about this guy? No fracking. You’re not going to frack. Onstage with all these crazy people and they don’t want any energy. They think everything’s going to run by wind, which costs you a fortune, about 20 times more than what we have and doesn’t work. But think of it, all of these people… And they say, “What about fracking? Fracking is the modern technology. And so they all said, “No, no, we’re all against… everyone’s against fracking. What about you?” Yes, I’m against it too. Now he’s against it for months. He gets it, now he’s in favor of it. But he’s sort of grandfathering it. You know, it’s a very weak… Well, I like to grandfather fracking. If I’m a fracker, I don’t want to be grandfather. I want to have it or not have it, right? He wants to grandfather fracking. Always go with their first statement, okay?
So I was in Texas two weeks ago, we had crowds. Mike, we had crowds that went from the airplane to the well, to the drilling well, where we went to see a well. And we saved the industry because I got Russia and Saudi Arabia to cut back 10 million barrels. It actually was probably 18. Ended up being, I think, 18.5 million barrels. And it saved the industry. And yet you’re still paying very low gasoline prices at the pump, but we saved 10 million jobs. But I’m in Texas, and let me tell you, Texas appreciated it because that industry was in deep trouble because all of a sudden with the pandemic, there was no demand. There was nobody driving, there was no demand. Nobody ever saw anything like it.
So I’m in Texas and I said to the crowd, it was a great crowd, and we must have had a hundred thousand people on the road, on the highways and roadways waving. And they had the most beautiful Trump flags. I wanted to stop, “Where did you buy that flag?” The most beautiful flags of me and our great vice president. Is Mike Pence doing a good job by the way? He did such a great… he worked 29 hours a day. I mean, this guy works day and night. He worked not the 24. He worked 24 plus least five, okay. This man is a worker and he’s a wonderful human being. And when they try it, a guy like Biden that can’t carry his jockstrap. When Biden goes, “Oh, they should have closed one week earlier”, and here’s the guy that said I made a mistake when I banned China that nothing’s going to happen.
It’s so phony. This politics is a very phony business. I haven’t been doing it long. I told one of the senators that came in, he came into my office there, ” I’ve been doing this for 30 years. I’ve won many elections, I’ve only lost twice in my life. I’ve been a Senator for a long time. I know what I’m doing, sir”. I said, “Yeah, and I’ve done it for four years. And I’ve only won one election, but it’s for the president of the United States.” I remember a certain man on television that didn’t like me too much. He said, “They put together the greatest field ever assembled, the Republicans, remember? 17 plus me. They put together the greatest field of talent ever assembled. I hear Trump wants to come in. He’s not going to do it number one. Number two, if he does, he’s just doing it for fun and he’ll be out by September and then he’ll go about leading his life, but he’s not going to do it. But we don’t really need him because this is the greatest single assemblage of talent ever assembled for one party.”
The greatest talent he’s ever seen. And then I did it and just week after week, one out, two out, three out, four out. And then we’ve done changes. Oh, he said, “He can’t do it because he doesn’t have any experience.” But I actually do on the other side. I contributed to politics. I always found it very interesting. So in a certain way, I had a lot of experience probably. Maybe I had too much experience. That’s why I can tell you about AOC. Check out the $2 million please, check it out, check it out. Check out Omar, check out Omar, get to that great writer, he should get… Oh, so the New York Times won all these Pulitzer prizes, right? I was going to tell you before. All these Pulitzer prizes, these people, and they all got it wrong, right?
They got for Russia, Russia, Russia. We give the Pulitzer prize. I won’t use names. I won’t use names, but we give the Pulitzer prize to the New York Times. They got it wrong. We give the Pulitzer prize to the Washington Post and all of these real sleazebags. I have to be honest with you. Very dishonest people, very dishonest. I call it the Amazon Washington Post. He uses that as his lobbyist because he owns the Washington Post. He gets crap that other people wouldn’t get, okay. That means it’s a lobby. It’s a lobbyist deal. But they got the prize, right? They got the Pulitzer prize. All the guys that got it right, that really got it right, they all got it wrong, totally wrong. And they should return the Pulitzer prize. And Pulitzer association, the committee should ask for those prizes back. They got it all wrong. They were a hundred percent wrong. There was no collusion. They couldn’t believe. Remember the day when it was announced after three years, there is no collusion. I could have told them that a day one, they could have saved 48 million dollars.
They got the Pulitzer. And then you take guys so many, so many. Solomon, Sara Carter, Bongino. How about Dan Bongino? So many, so talented guys. How about that great gentlemen who wrote The Witch Hunt? Remember that? That was the first, right? You know what I’m talking about. He’s fantastic. All great. These people should have won the Pulitzer prize. Now I would say Sean Hannity and Lou Dobbs and Laura and Tucker. In all fairness, Tucker was very good. Tucker was great, but these are all people that got it right. Now they don’t do I guess the Pulitzer prize for that stuff, but they probably should. But these guys all got it right. And all they did was get a lot of money because they’re very successful, and that’s okay I guess. But they should give the Pulitzer prize to the people that got it right and they should withdraw from all of those writers, many of whom are back there right now, all of those writers, they should do that.
So just to finish up, just to finish up, I want to just say that we have some great congressmen here. I’d love you guys to come up here because I just want to have you come up. Would you come up? They deserve it. Because I told them, they’re busy guys, that they’re big warriors and all that. And I told them, “I’m going to introduce you right at the beginning. Be here, and then you can get out of here.” They’ve been waiting now for an hour and 20 minutes. Come on up. So just walk to the end, shake their hand. Everybody sign a slip that you’re voting for them, please. They’ve got no problem. But you have members of Congress here, Jim Hagedorn, Tom Emmer, Pete Stauber, great hockey player. And hopefully your next US Senator who’s a man who’s done a fantastic job, run a great campaign, Jason Lewis [inaudible 01:44:25].
And a candidate for Congress, Michelle Fischbach, who’s supposed to be fantastic. And Michelle has my complete and total endorsement. But Jason, you’re in good shape, wow. You’re in better shape than these Congressman Jase. By the way, Jason is fantastic and he’s doing a fantastic… Where’s Michelle? Is she there? Be careful. It’s not worth the broken legs. Look at her. Oh, she’s a warrior, I can tell. Come on up. But thanks, Michelle. And they have my complete endorsement. They’re great people. They love your state. They love our country.
So just in conclusion, I want to say that over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States. And you probably heard me today. It used to be Puerto Rico did tremendous dollars in medical supplies. And then what happened? They made a lot, they did a good job, and Obama Biden destroyed it. They took away the incentive, all of the taxes. And they took away the incentive and Puerto Rico went down a long way. We’ll get some of that back to Puerto Rico and we’ll get it back for us. Take it away from China. You heard that, yes? They took it away.
And then people automatically vote. It’s like a habit. Will I vote for the Democrat? The Democrat was so bad to you. And how bad were the Democrats to Israel? We did Jerusalem, right? We broke up the Iran deal, right? And then they vote for a Democrat. It’s out of habit, but I think the habits, we’re breaking those habits very quickly. But we’ve helped Puerto Rico and we’ve really helped… If you look at what we’ve done for Israel, it’s been incredible. They say nobody’s done more. And it’s my honor. But we’ll hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities, which are a disaster. We’ll appoint tough on crime prosecutors. We will nominate judges and justices who interpret the constitution as written. We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.
And that’s why the Supreme court is so important. The next president will get one, two, three, or four Supreme court justices. I had two. Many presidents have had none. They’ve had none because they’re there for a long time. They tend to be appointed young. They’re there for a long time. But the next one we’ll have anywhere from one to four. Think of that. That will totally change when you talk about life, when you talk about second amendment, when you talk about things that are so important to you. You’re going to be stuck for 40 years, 35 years, a long time. So this is going to be the most important election, in my opinion, in the history of our country. You got to get it right. Because if you don’t get it right, we will not have a country anymore. You’re not going to have a country. Not as we know it. You won’t have a country anymore.
We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of these ridiculous, horrible, endless foreign wars. Countries you’ve never heard of. Coming home. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military mind, and we will ensure peace through strength. This is what we have now. Peace through strength. Remember what I told you about those weapons, we don’t want to use ever, we don’t want to use those weapons. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, January 1st. He doesn’t even have to do anything now. I’ll be so angry if he… They’ll say, “What a job he’s done on transparency, can you believe it?” And he won’t even know what transparency is. And it’s complex. And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs. We’ve done that already. We will strongly protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.
America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And we brought NASA back. NASA, when I got in three and a half years ago, grass was growing through the cracks of the runway. It was over, it was closed. It was nothing. Now it’s the number one space center in the entire world by a factor of five. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust. You know that the Democrat national convention and the pledge of allegiance at a caucus, two of them, not one. I heard the first one, I said, “Oh, they must’ve made a mistake.” They left under God out of the pledge of allegiance.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now they then said, “Oh, well we didn’t mean that.” They meant it. That’s what they’re going to do. They’re going to take God out of it. Just like I was saying before, Texas, they don’t want God, they don’t want oil, they don’t want guns. I don’t think they’re going to do too well in Texas. Do you agree with that? I don’t think they’re going to do too well in Minnesota either. No, but could you imagine you’re campaigning, and it doesn’t play too well here, but could you imagine you’re in Texas and you have a guy say, “No oil, no God, no guns. Oh, I think I’m going to vote for Joe Biden, everybody.” And then they say, “Texas is in play, it’s a very close…” I have a friend in Texas. He said, “I think you’re winning by 15 points.” These people are crazy. Texas is in play. They don’t want to let you have oil. Think of it. It’s unbelievable. Texas is in play. That’s the fake news back there.
They said it last time too. Remember? Texas, when they say in play, that means it’s too close to call. It’s in play. Too close. We’ve heard that for a long time, in play, right? Too close to call. And they said it four years ago, “Texas is in play. This could be a terrible defeat, losing Texas. Big state, great state. This would be a tremendous defeat.” And they said it about Ohio too. I think we won by like nine points. Right? They said Ohio is in play. Utah’s in play. We won by a lot. Remember we beat a guy named McMuffin. Remember the guy? He was going to take the state of Utah. And then he was going to be able to negotiate. But that didn’t work out. He came in third. Even Hillary beat him. But they said Texas is in play. And I’d go around telling my people, “Damn it, Texas is in play, how the hell? Every time I go there, I have 35,000 people at the stadium, how could it possibly be in play?” They said it’s in play. My people would say, “I don’t think so.”
And we had a big Texas rancher. He was on one of the shows. He was wearing a big, beautiful hat. I wish I could wear those hots. It wouldn’t work for me too well. I don’t think it works for me, right? But it worked for him. And he said, “I don’t know too much about a lot, but I know one thing. Texas is not in play. And this guy is going to win Texas by a hell of a lot of votes.” And that’s what happened that night, the night of the election. The night of the election, they called the results. I’ve been listening for six months, “Texas is so close, we can’t even imagine it it’s so close. This is big.” And they only call the election immediately if you win in a landslide, it’s got to be tremendous. And they said, “Texas has closed its doors. Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.” They didn’t even say the polls were closed. They forgot to say the polls were closed.
I wanted to say. I said, “How come I won?” I called my people, “How could I have won? It was so close they called it before they even said the doors closed.” And I heard from the governor of Texas, great guy, Greg Abbott. I said, “How are we doing compared to four years ago?” We did great four years ago, big, big win. He said, “Sir, you’re doing much better.” But these guys keep saying it’s in play. It’s the same way that I’m down nine points in Minnesota. If I lose Minnesota, if I lose Minnesota, Jason, I’m going to blame Jason if I lose. Boy, we almost had it last time. But we did the right thing. We went to Michigan, we won Michigan, first time in many, many years, that Michigan was won. It’s a great state.
For years you had a president who apologized for America. And now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for Minnesota. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote. And you know it’s starting today in Minnesota. That’s why I’m here. It started today. Go out of here. You know what? If they’re closed, what the hell time is it now? If they’re closed, just stand in line like you do. People were here two days ago trying to get in here. It’s crazy. So do the same thing at the voting booth, please.
We love you! We love you Mr. President!
From St. Paul to St. Cloud, from Rochester to Duluth, and from Minneapolis, thank God we still have Minneapolis, to right here, right here with all of you great people, this state was pioneered by men and women who braved the wilderness and the winters to build a better life for themselves and for their families. They were tough and they were strong. You have good genes. You know that, right? You have good genes. A lot of it’s about the genes, isn’t it? Don’t you believe? The racehorse theory you think was so different? You have good genes in Minnesota. They didn’t have a lot of money. They didn’t have a lot of luxury, but they had grit, they had faith, and they had each other. That’s what you have now. You have each other.
They were miners and lumberjacks, fishermen and farmers, shipbuilders and shopkeepers. But they all had one thing in common. They loved their families, they loved their countries, and they loved their God. Proud citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we’re going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
One more year. One more year. One more year.
And don’t forget, you went through years where you weren’t winning, right? Years and years, they closed down. Even with Obama, he closed that iron. I think he just wanted to get even with you, I don’t know. He wasn’t good. Not a good… We’ve knocked out about 84% of the things he did. Then you say, “I wonder if he likes me?” But you’re getting used to winning and you’re going to see winning like you’ve never seen before. You had your best year and you’re going to win so much. You’ve heard this, right? I haven’t said it in a long time because we’ve been doing a lot of winning, but you’re going to win so much. And you’re going to send Jason to the US Senate. And you’re going to keep winning and winning and winning.
You’re going to win on trade, you’re going to win on the military. You’re going to win on everything you touch. Minnesota is going to keep on winning and you’re going to get tired of winning because Minnesota doesn’t want to win all the time. Your football team is going to win in the big 10 they say, right? No, we are going to keep on winning in Minnesota. And you’re going to get so tired you’re going to say, “Jason, Jason, please, please Jason, go to the president. See him in the oval office. Stop him from winning. We’re winning too much in Minnesota. We can’t stand it. Jason, please, please Jason. Stop him from winning so much for Minnesota. We can’t take it. We’re not used to it because we went through years and years and years where it was tough”, right?
The mayors know that. That’s why they all endorsed the president. And I’m going to look at Jason, I’m going to say, “No, Jason, I’m sorry. The people of Minnesota want to win, you’re wrong, Jason. They want to win. We’re going to keep on going, Jason, we’re going to keep on winning. And they’re going to be happy as hell, Jason.” Get Jason in, he’s a great guy. By the way, you have a Senator that he’s running against. I won’t even mention names. She does nothing, nothing. Nobody even knows who the hell she is. She goes to a meeting the other day, everyone’s trying to figure out who is she? This guy… he even looks the role. Central casting, right? If you can get the look for free, that’s good too. Right? But he’s going to be fantastic. Tremendous guy, really successful. And he loves your state and he loves our country. So Jason, please knock them out. Knock them out.
But you’re going to win. We’re one movement. We’re one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Minnesota, and you know what’s going to be operating at strength? Because I owe it to these incredible mayors that were so nice to me. That was such a nice thing. And I didn’t politick you at all. I never politicked you. I said how nice. And it’s happening with so many other things. We have other endorsements from police forces that I never asked and all of a sudden they’re coming from very hostile territory. So I just appreciate your being here. And I’m saying this for you and I’m saying it for all of you. Okay. Thank you. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you Minnesota, thank you.
Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you very much. That is a beautiful site right behind me, isn’t it? That’s a beautiful site. Thank you very much. And a very big hello, Wisconsin, we’ve been very good together. And I’m thrilled to be with thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots. 47 days from now, we’re going to win Wisconsin and we’re going to win four more years in the White House. This is the most important election in the history of our country. I feel that way so strongly, so do you. Joe Biden devoted his entire career to offshoring Wisconsin jobs, outsourcing your factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless ridiculous foreign wars and surrendering your children’s future to China. You know what he’s been doing? I just see he’s up there tonight getting softball questions from Anderson Cooper. They don’t ask me questions like that. And the audience isn’t quite like this. Do you see what his audience … they’ve got cars. They have car in a parking, it’s the weirdest thing I’ve ever seen.
And CNN is going, “Oh, this is so beautiful.” It’s not beautiful. They have cars in a parking lot. What a deal, I’ll tell you, what a deal. Biden’s supported every disasterous global sellout for half a century, including a NAFTA, China. You take a look at China’s entry into the World Trade Organization and TPP. He supported them all, Biden, surrendered your jobs to China and you know that. I probably wouldn’t be here if it weren’t for that, it was one of the big things, one of the big reasons I decided to say to my great wife, our first lady, let’s go have some fun. Let’s go have some fun. She’s done a great job and very popular. And the family is all over the place, all over the country. But unlike Joe, who lets you down when he’d never even came back to Milwaukee to apologize or just to pay respects, I came to Wisconsin and I’ve been here a lot since, since we started this, a lot.
And you’ve been a tremendous beneficiary of what I’ve done and I have to, because you’ve been with me, you’ve supported me and we’ve had great victories together, all victories, so I want to thank you. Now Biden wants to surrender our country to the violent left-wing mob. You see what’s happening. If Biden wins very simple, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchists, arsonists, and flag burners, they win and we’re not into flag burners. We don’t like flag burners. I’d like to say, pass a law, one year in jail, you started burning flags, we put you in jail for a year. We should do that. They would have done that, it’s a different world, I guess, but it’s sort of coming back to the way we have to have it because we’re for law and order.
They say, don’t use that term, it’s too tough. No, everybody wants law and order. Minorities want law and order. Everybody wants law and order. They have to have it. I’m running for the reelection and a very important reelection to bring jobs in factories back and that’s a continuation. Because I don’t know if you know it, the single greatest year Wisconsin has ever had was last year. The second best year that Wisconsin has ever had was the year before. And guess what the third was the year before that? And you’re going to have your best year economically next year, it’s all heading in that direction despite the pandemic given to us by China. We want to put the violent criminals behind bars and we have to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, not to other very terrible forces out there, because if we win, very simply America wins. And that’s what we want, we want this great country to win.
Over the last three and a half years, we’ve secured America’s borders. Fixed the disastrous trade deals, they have been the worst ever. Not even … it was not even … when I looked at these, I studied them and I used to talk about them, they had to be bad. When I started studying, I said, “Who are the people that made these deals?”2 Grossly incompetent people. Brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military and obliterated the ISIS caliphate. We open obliterated it. Obama was not able to do it, he wasn’t able to come close. It was just announced that in 2019, before the virus came in from China, we grew median income by a record of $4,400 in just one year, achieving the highest median income in U.S. history. That’s in the history of our country.
In the first three years, we lifted six point six million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in the history of our country. That’s not bad. And I didn’t even make these numbers up. These are numbers that … they sound good to me. We built the greatest economy in the history of a world. This is the greatest economy in the history of the world. And then the virus came in, we closed it down, we saved millions and millions of lives. We’d be at two and a half million, two million, three million. A number that would not be sustainable, would not be acceptable. A horrible number, there shouldn’t have been one person that died. It should have been stopped at China. They stopped it for their country, but it came out to us, to Europe, to the rest of the world, 188 countries. We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine before the end of the year. And it could be very, very soon. You’ve been seeing what’s going … could be very, very soon. Could be, it’s amazing how all of a sudden they hate the vaccine.
When they thought it couldn’t be done, they said, “Well, he’s got to get a vaccine.” And then all of a sudden, they’re looking like it’s going to be very close. We’re doing great. We’re doing great with vaccines and therapeutics, Remdesivir, all sorts of other things that are bringing the rates down, like at numbers that nobody can believe. But we have three vaccines right now, they’re in the final stage, clinical trials. We worked it for the FDA where they approved it fast. They went very fast, very quick, at levels that nobody else could have ever achieved. No other administration, certainly the last one, because the last one was grossly incompetent. In fact, that’s why I’m here, because if it was good, I wouldn’t have run.
If they did their job, I wouldn’t have run. I was very happy in my other life. I was very happy, but I’m very happy in this life. More happy, because nobody has produced in three and a half years, the first three and a half years, nobody has done what we have been able to do, nobody. So we’ll defeat the virus and next year will be truly, I think, from an economic standpoint and from other standpoints, maybe the best year of all. Hard to believe we’re going so fast, the numbers have been incredible. We’ve had employment numbers, the best ever. We’ve had retail sales numbers the best ever. You see them all, they come out every day. And our stock market is for the most part, at a new high.
And if people have 401ks, if you want to have your 401k go down like to depression levels, I think you should vote for sleepy Joe, because he’s going to raise your interest. He’ll be raising your interest rates. I watch him though, he’s denying all this up. Everything that he said, he’s now denying. He said, no fracking, right? There will be no fracking during the … he didn’t know what fracking was, but he said there’s no fracking. The reason is because everybody else, all of the radical left candidates up there, they couldn’t get too far left, so Joe agreed. Then he gets the nomination, now they’re all angry. You know that crazy Bernie, all of the left democrats, they don’t want to vote for him anymore because he made promises and now all of a sudden he forgot that he said no fracking. He said, “Well, now we can do some fracking.”
But remember this in politics, it’s always the thing that they say first, that’s what they’re going to do. No guns, no religion, no energy, no oil, remember that. Remember, he put Beto in charge of his gun policy, right? Beto, crazy Beto. Remember when Beto went out, he said, “I was born for this.” And that’s when it all came down. As soon as I heard that, anybody said they were born for this, that doesn’t play well. But he’s in charge of the Second Amendment. And you won’t have a Second Amendment. Frankly, you wouldn’t have a Second Amendment if I didn’t get elected, it would have been obliterated. It would have been torn up. Maybe it would have been totally knocked out. But there’s tremendous pressure on your Second Amendment. As long as I’m here, you’ll always have a Second Amendment. But I want to just say, they do disinformation, they make up a phony story and then they go with it. They make up a totally phony story. It’s called disinformation. And one of the things, oh, what they did, the worst of all was the soldiers. Because, nobody loves our soldiers like I do and they made up a phony deal. And that’s why I say the gloves are off because when they do that, that’s worse than what I’m going to talk to you about, that’s big 10. You know we got it back, right? We got big 10. But the soldier story, about standing over their graves, you know the one I’m talking about, then they do a commercial. And I said, the good news about that is the gloves are off. I can now call him grossly incompetent, the man is incompetent. He’s been there for 47 years, he didn’t do a thing.
Now all of a sudden, in years where he was never considered smart, but now he’s really not considered smart. And now all of a sudden he’s going to do what he never did in 47 years. He’s got to do this and that and everything that I’m doing, everything that we’re doing. But I want to congratulate the big 10 conference on yesterday’s announcement that the fall season will start very soon. Oh, I hope your team does well after all that. I hope that team does well. But I especially want to thank a football legend, he was great. Wisconsin’s own Barry Alvarez, he was great. Good, got to be careful when you do that, a lot of times you don’t like people too much. They say, “Oh,” but he’s a good man. We worked with him. We worked with a whole group, including the commissioner of the league, did a very, very good job, did a very good job.
But we called them, and the reason is that they took an ad. In other words, another one, disinformation. They took an ad saying I was against football. I’m the one that said they shouldn’t close. But I said that, if they close, they close. But then they took an ad saying I’m the one, I didn’t want it. I wanted it closed. So then I said, “Well, no, I don’t. I want it open. Let me call up the commissioner.” We called up the commissioner and he was great. He said, “You really think so?” And bottom line, we worked very hard, lots of calls to lots of different states, lots of people. We dealt with the players, the parents of the players, who are really the boss, that’s okay, I won’t say that. But these are players that have a shot at the NFL. They have a shot at pro-football. We want the NFL to proudly stand when they sing our National Anthem. Or their ratings are going to continue to go down like they did last weekend, down 27%. Because people don’t want that.
You know what, we have enough politics, right? We have politics here. We have politics all over. In fact, sometimes I have to turn it off. I can’t do it anymore. I can’t watch me. It’s always … I can’t watch me. I can’t watch. But no, we have enough politics. We don’t want to watch now on Sunday, all, here we go again with the politics, let them play football, let them stand and salute or put your hand on your heart and be proud of our country and be proud of our great American flag. And then go home to the mansion and have a good time. Take a nice sauna and then if you want, after you recover, you come out and you go and you do your thing, whatever the thing may be. But people don’t want to see it and the ratings are down. Here we go again.
I thought we taught them that lesson two years ago. Didn’t we think? I thought we taught that lesson. But Biden would absolutely eradicate your state’s economy. I know this state very well. It’s one of the reasons I made the great deal with Canada and Mexico, but Canada, because they were taking advantage of you so badly on your dairy products. You had a 287% tariff on your dairy products with Canada. People don’t realize Canada is one of the toughest negotiators and they treated your state and this country very unfairly until I came along, very, very unfairly. Did you know that? 287. But I saw some farmers and this was like the straw that broke the camel’s back. They had something called specialty milk. Does anybody know what that is? Right, you know. A lot of people … it’s a small little grouping of milks, specialty milk. But this was the final straw.
And I met some people and Canada finally did it to them like they did it to everybody else. And they raised a tariffs massively, they made it impossible. They tried to take over that business too, along with all of them, it was just massive and horrible what they did. And that really got me going, the little specialty milk, specialty products, a small portion, but you know what, that was it. And we have a great deal. The USMCA is a great deal and I’m very honored to have done it. But it was all because of specialty milk and the way you were taken advantage of by Canada. You know, they have the wonderful, Oh, Canada, we love to hear the song, right? But let me tell you, they are very tough. And they’ve taken advantage of our country for many, many years. And I will tell you this, they’re not so happy now, but at least they got a deal, but you’re happy. And it’s about time you were happy. You now have a great deal and you’re not going to have your companies leaving for Mexico anymore or Canada.
And you’re not going to have them make your product in Mexico or Canada, send it over here with no tariff, with no tax. Where we lose tax, we lose jobs, we lose our companies, we lose everything. And they make a lot of money selling the product to us, same product. So we’re not doing that stuff anymore. There’s a tremendous disincentive, it’s called, like, let’s not do it. And you haven’t seen that lately. You haven’t seen too many companies leaving have you? It’s sort of an amazing thing. It’s a little bit like what we did with the statues. So on the statutes, they were knocking them down three or four months ago. I said, “Do we have any laws? No, but there was a very old law.” I said, “What was it?” You get 10 years in jail, 10 years in prison, they actually use the word prison, which is a tough word. You get 10 years in prison if you knocked down a statue or a monument. I said, “Let me see that law, I want to see that law.” Right, Glen, right? I want to see that law.
Where’s Duffy, is he there too? Look at the guy, he’s climbing trees tomorrow. And Rachel, oh Rachel, he was a good climber, you think he could climb up a tree faster than me? I think so. So I just want to tell you, so what we’ve done in a very, very short period of time is what nobody thought. And we came in and we did it and we did it for you. And we did it for everybody. We did it for our country, but we wouldn’t have a country left. What was happening to our country, how we were taken advantage. Now we have to get four more years to cement it and to do additional things, including tax cuts. They’re going to raise your taxes. They’re going to raise your taxes very substantially. We’re cutting your taxes. We got you the biggest tax cut in history, and we’re going down lower and it’s called [inaudible 00:20:05].
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you very much. So big tax cuts, big regulation cuts. The Democrats, they want to … the Democrats, they want to just really break us down in terms of our competitive ability to compete with other nations. Do you notice what’s happening with Japan? You notice what’s … We have taken billions and billions of dollars in from China. We charge them a fortune. In fact, many farmers in this group, because you got to love Trump. I gave you $28 billion, right? Thank you very much, China, right? You were targeted. 12 billion, Sonny Purdue, Secretary of Agriculture. I said, “Sonny, how much have they been hit for, targeted for?” Remember when China said we’re not going to do anything, we’re not buying. They thought they were going to put pressure on us. Sonny said, “Sir, 12 billion, the year before last and last year was 16, total of 28 billion.” We took 28 billion out of the tariffs. China never paid us 25 cents, not 25 cents with Obama and Biden.
And in all fairness with no president, they paid us nothing. They pay us now tens of billions of dollars. I took a small portion of it, I added it up, 16 and 12, 28, and I said, $28 billion is going to the farmers. Did everybody get that money, right? You had a very good year, the farmers have had a very good year. Last week, China ordered and you have to understand, I view China differently now than I did six months ago, we made a great trade deal but I view it differently because I don’t know if I can ever view it the same. But last week they know how I feel and they’re very smart. So instead of saying, we’re not going to do business, which would have been okay with me. We would have worked it out somehow, you would have been very successful, the farmers.
But last week, they had the largest order of corn. Did you know this? In the history of our country. Did anyone know this, the farmers? From China, thank you very much. The largest order of soybeans in the history of our country. And one of the largest cattle orders in the history of our country, because they’re very smart. Somebody else would have said, well, let’s not do business. And then it would have been easy for me, but they gave us so much. I have every farmer calling up saying, please do me a favor. We love this. We love this. This is a great deal. It’s a great deal, but we feel differently about it, don’t we? We just feel differently about it. I don’t talk about it like I used to, I talked about it, it was great. And it turned out to be a great deal, but I don’t talk about it the same way.
At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies or two agendas for the future than these two parties, you got law and order on one side and you have chaos on the other. On November 3rd, Wisconsin will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity or whether we will allow Biden and the Democrats to impose a four trillion dollar tax hike, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, which is what they want to do. Shut down the economy, destroy the suburbs. You know they were destroying our suburbs, you know that, right? I don’t know, if somebody said, you just doing okay in the suburbs? I said, “How can I do okay, I saved the suburbs. What I’ve done is saved the suburbs.” And you know this, I don’t have to go into it, but I saved the suburbs. I think the suburbs … Last time, four years ago, “Oh, he’s not going to do well with women.” I did great with women. They said, “Well a big thing.” Remember that?
Election eve, “He won’t do well … this will be a very short, not doing well with women.” I did great. They said at the end of the night, after they announced I won, they said, “What happened? Well, he did very well with women. I don’t know how it happened there.” They said he did very well with African American community. He did very well with Hispanics. They said he did very well with everything. We kicked their ass. That was [inaudible 00:24:40]. No, but was that one of the greatest evenings ever, remember? And remember all the fake news, look at all the … Oh la, that’s a lot. That’s a lot of people back there. Look at that, the red lights are on. Don’t worry, I won’t say anything bad about you CNN. Because as soon as I see, as soon as I-
Because as soon as I see … As soon as I’m getting ready to say something about fake news, et cetera, et cetera, the lights start going off so I’m not going to … One just went off I think. You can tell by the lights, they got that little beautiful red light. You see it? But I won’t say anything bad about them but they are fakers and do you remember when they … Remember when they were saying that the polls are terrible. Actually these polls are very good compared … That was so bad it was like why did anybody vote. They’re called suppression polls. They make them so bad that you lose all your appetite, you lose all your spirit, they take your guts out, and you don’t go and vote, and your wife looks at you and says, “Darling I love that guy, but he’s not going to win. He doesn’t have a chance because the polls, he’s down 10, he’s down 20, he’s down 50 points, darling. He can’t possibly win. Let’s go have dinner and then we’ll come home and watch his concession speech.” But my people didn’t buy that because my people went out to vote. Instead, we watched her concession speech. Crooked Hillary, that was a real piece of work. Remember when she was saying, “Will you accept the decision of the voters? Will you accept that decision?” I wasn’t perfect, I said I’ll see how it works out. I should have said, “Yes, I will,” but I couldn’t do that because I know how crooked she is. Would you accept the decision? The anchor said to me like, “Will you accept?” They’re coming after me, I said, “You’re supposed to be going after her a little bit too.” Did you ever see debates where you had all of the anchors plus the candidates against me? Here we sit, is that Air Force One, yes, that’s Air Force One. How did that happen? A lot of the times I’d say to the anchor, I’d say, “Wait a minute. Wait a minute. This isn’t fair.” I mean I’m watching what they’re doing with Biden where he’s using teleprompters, “Move it up, move it up, I can’t see, I can’t see.” He’s shot. He’s shot.
President Xi of China is not shot. Putin is not shot. Kim Jong-un, remember we’re supposed to be in a war with him, what happened to the war? No, it seems to be good. Did you see the Middle East two days ago? Remember our incompetent negotiator John Kerry? He never got up to walk. The guy’s getting beaten on every point, I say, “Walk. Walk. Get up and leave the table. You’re giving up.” They’d say, “We want this.” He’d say, “Well, I’d rather not.” “We want this.” “Okay, you got it.” “We want that.” “You got it.” “We want that.” Say no and walk. They’ll probably possibly call you back and if they don’t that’s okay too. But right now I will tell you Iran, if we win, Iran will be calling us within the first week, they’re dying to make a deal. GDP down 27%. They don’t have too much money for terror anymore, it’s actually amazing, do you notice what’s going on?
Now I don’t want to speak too loud, but I did put out on social media the other day that if they hit us in any way, any form, written instructions already done, we’re going to hit them 1000 times harder than we’ve ever hit them before. So hopefully they will just come and we’ll make a deal and they’ll go back to being a rich country, let them go back and be rich but they cannot have a nuclear weapon. They cannot. That deal was so bad that Obama made. $150 billion, they got $150 billion for nothing. You know the deal is practically … If I didn’t terminate it which I’m proud to have done, but if I didn’t terminate it, they got $1.8 billion in cash, how about that? If I didn’t terminate that stupid deal, first of all you wouldn’t have the deal in the Middle East and all these countries are joining, it’s happening fast. They want to all join. We did it, you know, the reverse. We did it the … Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize. Nobel Peace Prize.
You know it’s interesting, thank you very much. I knew I like you. So the Nobel Peace Prize. So the funny thing, a lot of people don’t know because the fake news doesn’t write about it. So if you’re a president, right? And you are nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, you’re the United States, no, but think of this. That’s a big deal. I mean Obama got it like in his first couple of weeks and nobody knew why he got it including him, remember? He couldn’t tell you why. He had no idea. To this day, he has no idea why he got it. But if you’re a president and you get nominated, then two days later, you get nominated, did you know this, a second time, for a different deal. Kosovo. Serbia. They’ve been killing each other for hundreds of years. I stopped a lot of death and I did it like easy, it wasn’t hard for me. It’s sort of a natural thing to do but we did a good thing. But you know what? They did a check. So I got nominated twice for the Nobel Peace Prize, that’s a big deal, I don’t know. I should have gotten nominated seven times because we did a lot of other things, but these are for two different deals, and not one mention was made on the evening news. Think of it.
Now when Obama got it, it was headlines, headlines. Our president just got the Nobel Peace Prize, he was just nominated, headlines. Like his first little while he got it and to this day, and frankly, he did a lousy job. He was a lousy president, he really was. His vice president, I’ll tell you what. His vice president was very good for you know who? For Hunter, where’s Hunter, where’s? Remember the quid pro quo, remember, I’m not giving them that billion dollars unless you get rid of that prosecutor [inaudible 00:31:42] I got rid of the prosecutor, here’s the billion, right? But they don’t want to play that too often. You have to look around for it. It’s a very unfair deal but as the expression goes, we won, I don’t know how the hell we did it. When you look at the opposition, when you look at how unfair it is and these guys know very well, you look at how unfair it is, it’s pretty damn good, but we have a lot of support. We have tremendous support of the people. These rallies, look at this rally. These rallies … These rallies are incredible.
I will tell you, Sean [inaudible 00:32:19] gap ever polled. I’m not a believer in the polls but I believe that one. It’s the biggest enthusiasm gap, he’s got no enthusiasm. The only enthusiasm is for the people that want to beat us, they want to beat me. That’s the only thing he’s got, the people that want to … They couldn’t care less about him. He could be that piece of wood that was left in the ground. Biden will hand the left wing mob the keys to your kids’ classroom. Earlier today I took a historic stand against the hateful lies being fed to America’s youth, the parents know all about it.
I checked, they’re doing it in Wisconsin too. I was a little surprised, I’m a little surprised. I’m a little surprised you let it happen actually but we’re going to get rid of it. I announced that we’re launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission. We’re going to teach our children the truth about America, that we’re the most exceptional nation ever to exist and we’re getting better every single day. Sleepy Joe Biden is wholly owned and controlled by the far left. He even opposed sending the National Guard into a place called Kenosha, did you ever hear of Kenosha? How about that, did we do a good job? I wish we did it a little sooner but we finally got your governor’s okay. We have to do that if … We got to get the governors to say please do it. How they don’t do it, how they don’t do it in some other places when you look at what’s going on with Chicago, right? When you look at what’s going on with Portland, those are just anarchists. You know how long it would take us to fix up Portland in terms of ending it all? I’d say far less than an hour, I’d say a half hour.
Look what we did at Minneapolis. We’re doing well in Minnesota because they saw what happened. Now they shouldn’t have allowed it to go on for 11 days, they should have called us immediately but do you remember that beautiful night? Nice evening, a little problem, there were a lot of buildings in the background that were burning down to the ground as reporters said, “No, this is a peaceful protest.”
By the way, officially, this is called a protest, you know that. We no longer call it rallies. We don’t use the term rally, okay? Rachel knows. We don’t call them rallies anymore because you’re not allowed to have a political rally for more than 10 people. You’re not allowed to go to church, you’re not allowed to meet, you’re not allowed to talk to anybody, you have to stay in a prison. Your home has become your prison and then I’m saying, “Well what are you allowed to do?” “Sir, you’re not allowed to do anything. I mean there is one thing but it doesn’t pertain to you.” “What is it?” “Well you are allowed to protest.” “Oh really? Oh.” Hence the name. We call them friendly protests. So these are protests, so it’s totally allowed. This is a protest. Remember when they walk out, when you walk outside, what do you consider this? Did you enjoy the rally? No, really, this is a protest, I’m sorry. No, [inaudible 00:35:58] I don’t know if it’s your state but a couple of them they have …
You’re allowed to protest, so you can’t go to church but you can rip the hell out of the streets, of Main Street, of 5th Avenue, break up the stores. Burn down the buildings. Climb over each other’s face, you can climb right over their face. You don’t have to wear masks, you don’t have to do anything. 25,000 people walking down the street, looters, anarchists, agitators, burning down stores, throwing things at police. They’ve taken the authority away from our police, our great police. They’ve taken their authority and their dignity away. We’re giving it back, we have to, we have to.
By the way, I was endorsed by New York’s finest and we’re with them all the way. I was just endorsed two days ago by Chicago Police. I think that takes courage, right? Philadelphia, Florida, Texas, everybody, Ohio. I don’t know, did anybody … Is there one group of … Even if it was a tiny little group of two or three police, did anybody endorse Sleepy Joe? I don’t think so. But we did a great job in Kenosha. We got out there, I went there as you know, a little while ago but had we not gone in that place would … It would have been burned to the ground. They did damage, we should have gone in. I wanted to go in the first night, we would have stopped it immediately but it was a great outcome as was in Minnesota. Again, if they would have called us early it would have been over. Portland, I’d love to go there. That would be so easy. You know in Seattle, they heard we were coming in, they gave up. They heard we … I said, “That’s enough. We’re going in. I don’t care. We’re going in.” “Do you have permission.” “No, we’re going in.” They took over a chunk of the city, and when they heard we were going in it’s like, “Well we give up, that’s it.” That was the end of the Settle problem. It’s a terrible thing that’s going on.
All in Democratic run, super liberal run, cities. The red cities are doing great. I think we’re doing great all over, the Republican cities, we’re fair. We’re not stupid. How stupid these people are. Did you see Chicago? 48 people shot, six died. You know we’re in Afghanistan, we’re pulling the troops, you know that, we’re coming back, we’re almost finished. We’re pulling … Finally, these endless wars. These endless wars, and we had to fight other things but we’ve done a great job but we’re acting like a police force over there. No, we’re pulling the troops, we’re almost out of Iraq. That’s another one, we’re down to about 2,000 troops, did you know that Sean? 2,000 troops. So Syria, we’re out but we kept the oil so we have some … Was it okay that we at least kept the oil? I feel badly because we have some troops … “Well you haven’t pulled the troops.”
No no, we’re gone, we pulled all the troops out of Syria. Remember we were supposed to be guarding the border between Syria and Turkey? I said, “Why are we doing that?” They said, “Well, we are.” I said, “Wait a minute, we have an army of 100,000 here, an army of 25,000, 30,000 here. We got 5,000 soldiers. That’s a very dangerous position to be in.” I don’t like it. They’ve been guarding their own borders with different names for a thousand years. Why the hell do we have to be over there guarding their border? We want to guard our own borders, right, where we’re doing very well. Where we’re doing very well. We’re doing great on our southern border, I hate to say this, but that wall is going up very rapidly, 10 miles a week. We’re up to 330 miles and the wall will be finished very soon. You think that was easy, that was not easy, our great congressman over here, that was not easy. The Democrats were totally in favor of the wall until I said when I came in, “We will build the wall.”
As soon as I said it, they were against the wall. They said, “We don’t want you to build the wall. Walls don’t work.” I said, “No no, walls always work.” You know what else works? The wheel. The wheel and the wall, you can go back. Come back in 1,000 years from now. The only two things I know for sure, you’re going to have a wheel and you’re going to have a wall. The computers, they come up with a brand new computer, it’s genius, 12 days later, it’s obsolete. But walls are never obsolete, neither are wheels.
So I made one mistake and I tell this to these guys because they were great warriors for me, the congressmen. They were incredible actually. I tell it to them. I should have said instead of we will build the wall, we will build the wall, we will build … Then the Democrats held us up and fought us and sued us and everything else and now we won so many lawsuits on the wall and we had the military money, I can build like 10 walls with all the money we have. It’s the craziest thing. Maybe we’ll build it double thick or we’ll go twice as high. No, but the wall is great. Everything, everything, that they wanted, but I made one mistake. I should have said, “We will not build a wall.” Then they would have insisted that we build it, I could have saved two years of litigation. “We will not build a wall under any circumstances.” Then Pelosi would say, “We demand that you build a wall.” These people are terrible. Crazy Nancy, crazy as a bedbug. She’s crazy as a bedbug. She decided to make a nice little stop-in at the beauty parlor, how did that work out? Not too good, it didn’t work out too well. Can you imagine? The owner of the beauty parlor is a MAGA lady, she loves Trump. Can you believe it?
I don’t know what it is but I think if I owned a beauty parlor, I had a customer, I’m not sure I’d be turning her in. The owner turned Nancy in. That’s a lot of hate. That’s serious hate, right? No, she’s a great owner. As far as I’m concerned, I think she’s fantastic. She’s for us. They said, “What made you do it?” You know what she said, “Because I see how hard our president has to work. I see what they put him through. I see what he puts with and I turned her in.” How about that? How about that?
We love her. She can do my hair anytime. I think I’m going to call her in. Check it out, maybe you can do something. Maybe you can improve it, it’s not bad though. I have friends that … I have friends my age, they’re not looking too good. Instead of standing up for America, Joe Biden and the Democrats, they condemn America and war is always waged on our great law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. Kamala Harris, that’s another great beauty, Kamala Harris, that’s a beauty. Remember, I tell this story all the time. When you pick somebody, you pick somebody that’s hot, that’s going in the right direction, right? She came out, she was at like 14, 15 in the polls, and she started going down, down, down, it never stopped. It drove her crazy. She was terrible at the debates. Wait till you see what …
I don’t want to put pressure on him but wait till you see what Mike Pence does to her in the debates, but I don’t want to put … I don’t want to put pressure on Mike. Do we have a great vice president? Is he good? He’s great, and he loves this state. Loves all the states actually. He’s just a great American but do you remember his last debate? What he did to that character from Virginia? That one wasn’t good. The other guy’s jumping around, Mike is just sitting there, we love America, we’re going to lower your taxes. Thank you, you win. No, Mike is great.
But Kamala Harris and 13 members of Biden’s staff urged their supporters to donate to a fund to bail out rioters, take them out of jail, get them out of jail as soon as possible. Including one who attempted to murder a police officer, a man who was accused of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl. This is what we’re dealing with. This is what we’re dealing with. You know Kamala was considered, is considered further left than Crazy Bernie, think of that. They got there … I mean seriously, watch. You know the manifesto that Biden and … It’s not Biden, Biden has not agreed to anything. His people, his representatives, because Biden doesn’t know he’s alive, let’s not kid ourselves. Biden. Biden didn’t agree, he didn’t, they just told him what’s happening. They said, “Listen, you’re against fracking but now you have to be in favor of fracking because you lucked out. Elizabeth Warren decided not to drop out and when she stayed,”
Pocahontas, you know Pocahontas? Did anybody ever hear of her? She’s another great one. Pocahontas. I said to her a long time ago, I’ve got more Indian blood in me than you do and I have none, I have none. Sadly. I’d love a little bit of it, but I have none, I said … I turned out to be right. She choked and she went for a blood test. Remember? Was it 1024th? Meaning maybe nine hundred years ago, there was a little action going on. Crazy Pocahontas, she’s a nasty one though, isn’t she? She’s a terrible person. I was hoping that she’d win so we could go after her because I think Kamala is not as smart but she’s a little bit less vicious.
I think this. The one who treated Sleepy Joe the worst was Kamala. She accused him of MeToo, she accused him of everything. She accused him of … That he was a racist, right? That he was a racist? Because what he’s done to the black population of this country was a terrible thing. She’s accused him of everything under the book, the busing, remember, the busing scandal. So I said brilliantly he’ll never pick her because she was too terrible to him. She was the worst of everybody. By far, I would say, but she picked him and hopefully that’s going to be history, it’s not going to matter, and that is no way for a woman to become the first president, that’s for sure. If a woman is going to become the first president of the United States, it can’t be her. That would rip our country apart. This is not what people want and she comes in through the backdoor, this would not be what people want, especially because it’s her.
Biden has called to end cash bail, you know that right, for vicious criminals? Meaning if you assault a copy or anybody else, you’re right back on the street the next day. He called for police and he calls them all the time the enemy. He says they’re the enemy and he just thinks it’s terrible. He think it’s terrible. Now he’s liking the police much more. It’s a little late. Remember, first instinct, that’s where they’re going, and he has no choice because he has to, because again, I was going to say, the radical left hates him because they think he deceived them because they agreed on that manifesto and that manifesto is seriously a leftist dream and he agreed from the Green New Deal, getting rid of your planes. No more airplane trips. Remember the crazy senator from Hawaii? “Do you like the Green New Deal?” “I love it very much,” he said. Oh okay, well you’re the senator from Hawaii, that’s right, the beautiful island of Hawaii. She said, “Under the Green New Deal you basically can’t fly in an airplane.” “Oh that’s a problem.”
So they said they’d build a bridge from the mainland to Hawaii. It’s 2,000 miles long but these are minor details. Remember her when they explained to her that planes are out, cows are out. Cows, they don’t want cattle, they don’t want cows. Did they withdraw that one? That was a tough one, wasn’t it? They don’t want cows, bad for the ozone layer. Who would even think of that? You’d got to be sick to even think it, okay? Give me a break. Give me a break and I guess under that theory this big guy is next, he’s next. No, it’s a sick deal going on there.
To do it the way they want would cost $100 trillion. That’s more money than this country could earn in 1,000 years to do it right. ” We don’t like that building, the windows are too large.” “Okay, let’s rip it down and build a new one.” What windows are you going to have? You’re not going to have windows anymore. Environmental. They love wind too, right? The big windmills, I always say, the greatest graveyard in the world for birds, just walk under a windmill. You will see more dead birds than you will ever imagine, what’s happening, including eagles. You know, in California they put you in jail if you shoot a bald eagle, right? You go to jail, right? These windmills are knocking them out of the sky all day long. It’s unbelievable, and yet they want wind, and wind also is very, it’s very hard to store the electricity from wind. So if you go home and you want to watch television because President Trump is on and you want to watch one of his very brilliant State of the Union addresses, if the wind isn’t blowing, the husband looks at the wife, says, “Darling, I’m sorry, you can’t watch tonight. The wind is not blowing.”
“Sorry, you can’t watch tonight. The wind is not blowing.” And she looks at me, “I like the old days. It’s much better.” But the rhetoric of Biden and the radical left puts your law enforcement in serious danger. Last weekend, two Los Angeles sheriff’s deputies were ambushed and shot at point blank range. And we have everybody looking for that creep that did it. I called him an animal the other night. I said, “He’s an animal,” and we were challenged by some people on the left. “He’s not an animal. He’s a human being.” He’s not a human being. They got to find him. They got to find him. And the penalty has to be very fast, very swift and very, very severe. You can’t do that.
We call for the death penalty if you kill a policeman. You know that, right? But the anti police demonstrators, they cheered and cheered when they saw this. And then they tried to stop them from even getting into the hospital. As president, I’ll always support the heroes of law enforcement and I’ll fight to ensure that criminals who murder police officers do indeed get the death penalty. They want prisoners to vote too, they wanted to. I said, “So what about the Boston bomber?” Remember Bernie Sanders? He wanted all prisoners to have. And I said, “Does that mean everybody?” “Yes.” So we sent in a question, “Does that include the Boston bomber? Is he entitled to a vote?” And even Bernie is going, “Oh man, let’s get into a different question. This is not a good question.” But we want to get that, we want to take care of it.
If you look at all of the problems that we have, you look at crime, even somebody brought it up today, we’re doing a great job relative to other countries on the coronavirus. You know how many names we have? Like 22 different names. I call it the China virus. We’re doing a great job. But if you want to really see a great job, take New York and some of these other Democrat run states out of it. You’ll see numbers that are unbelievable because New York had a very, very hard time. A lot of bad things happened. But you take a few of the states out and you’ll really see numbers. But by comparison to other countries and by almost all metrics, we’ve done an incredible job, including the job of helping the world with ventilators and all of the things that we built. And I think our task force has been incredible. And Mike Pence has done a great job.
Biden opposes the death penalty for cop killers or mass murderers. Biden says he wants to protect black lives, but his radical platform will cut short the lives of thousands of African American citizens. The Democrat party’s war on cops has already led to surging homicides in Democrat controlled cities. Yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide. They ask him, “What about nationwide? What about the fact that you just had your Democrat national convention?” Where, by the way, we had far many more viewers, millions and millions of more viewers. We had millions of more. I thought it was a great thing.
Did anybody hear Herschel Walker that night? It was … well. You talk about a good football player. He was some player. What a great guy. But all of them, everybody. The first lady did great, Ivanka did great. They all did, they did great. We had some … and some incredible stories, some very sad stories when you look and see what happened. But Biden’s plan is to appease the domestic terrorists. My plan is to arrest the domestic terrorists. Joe Biden is a weak person. He’s always been a weak person. And that was in prime time. And prime time was 25 years ago. And let me tell you, he’s not old. I always defend him on this. I have friends that are 85, 89, 92, 95, and they’re 100%. There’s just something wrong with Joe. He’s off, okay? He’s off, and I have no problem saying it anymore when I watch the disinformation, because this is not disinformation. This is fact.
If he’s elected, his radical supporters won’t just be causing mayhem on the streets, they’ll be running the Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Education. And most importantly, they will put many judges on the United States Supreme Court. We can’t have that. We’ll have a totally different country; radical left judges. And that has to do with the Second Amendment. It has to do with right to life, it has to do with so many different things that will turn your world upside down. And they’ll have one, two, three or four, whoever is the next president. And hopefully, that’s going to be us. Not me, us. It’s us.
But I put it, and think of this, by the end of the term, we’ll have approximately 300 brand new, great federal judges, Court of Appeals judges 300, which is a record, 300. Give or take a little, tiny bit, but 300. Nobody thought that was possible. I want to thank President Obama. He left us 142 openings. Nobody gets left one opening. A federal judgeship is a big deal. Nobody gets left any openings. He gave us 142 openings. Thank you very much. What happened? They thought Hillary was going to win, so they didn’t push it. And then they said, “Wait a minute, these polls are getting a little close at the end.” And they tried like hell to get some judges approved, but it didn’t work. That’s what happens. You got to go and you have to act fast. You got to get it done. Get it done, right? We get things done like nobody’s ever gotten it.
Oh, he was a great president. He was great. He left 142 judges for the Republicans. He was a great president, right? If you are of that side of the plate of that ideology, and you had a president that left you 142 federal judgeships, I don’t think you’d rate him as doing a good job. Hey, look at what happened in Iraq, look at what happened with ISIS, look at what happened with our military, look at what happened with our vets. Our vets are better taken care of now than they’ve ever been in the history of our country, but never forget they are coming after me because I am fighting for you. And that’s true. That’s true. And we’re winning the fight and we’re winning this election. This election, we are doing well. They refuse to say it. They refuse to say it, and they hate to say it. It just drives them crazy.
But that night, remember they started off by saying, “This will be a very short evening for Donald Trump.” That was Donald Trump in those days. Now, it’s President Trump. I lost all my friends because of this position. I had friends. “Hey, Don, let’s go to dinner.” “Okay. Good, Richard. I’ll go.” Hey, Don, let’s go.” “Okay, Larry. I’ll see you later. I’ll meet you at a restaurant in New York.” Everybody was nice and loose. You could have a great conversation, and you don’t want to know what we talked about. It’s just none of your business, but we were loose. All of a sudden, I’d become president of the United States.
And these are a lot of … I know a lot of important people. Actually, the people I like the best are the people that are less successful because it makes you feel so powerful. I always say, never go out with a successful person. You’ll understand. But I know a lot of very successful people, very, very successful. And now they call me up, “Mr. President, sir, would you like to get together sometime?” I say, “Loosen up. Yes, call me Donald. You’ve known me for 30 years, call me Donald.” “Oh, thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. President, I appreciate it.”
I lost all my friends because it’s respect for the office, let’s face it. It’s different. They used to be loose, they used to be great. You could sit back, I’m not a drinker, but you could sit back and have a drink, whatever the hell you’re drinking. And now, you can’t do that anymore. You can’t do it anymore. So I have to rely on people in Congress to be my friends. And we just happened to have a couple tonight. And one of them who’s been a great warrior and he’s doing a fantastic job, I just saw you on television by the way, Bryan. Does everybody know Bryan Steil? Bryan Steil; young, handsome, but a warrior. When the fake impeachment happened, it was a total fake, what did we finish up with the Republicans? 197 to nothing, right at the house. One night, it was a fake impeachment. I got impeached over a perfect phone call of congratulations to the president of Ukraine, who I never met before.
If you’re going to do something, at least know him a little bit, right? I never met him. And then they said it was eight times, quid pro quo. That was Adam Schiff. Shifty Schiff, right? And he went before Congress and he repeated my conversation, except that he made it all up. Remember he repeated it? And then I said, “Ah, fortunately, we had that whole thing essentially recorded.” I’m glad I did, but these are very deceptive, deceiving, sick people. And I said, “Well, he lied because there was no quid pro quo.” It was a perfect conversation. But by that time it was too late because they had already embarrassed themselves by doing it. And Nancy Pelosi was all set. She loved doing it, she from day one, but she thought it was what Schiff said. When she saw the conversation, she said to her people, “What the hell did you get me into?” So they could have dropped it, but they said, “Let’s give it a shot.”
So we won. And other than Mitt Romney where we lost a half of [inaudible 01:00:47]. He’s another beauty, Mitt Romney. He’s a real beauty. He couldn’t get elected dog catcher right now in Utah. So we have another great one and he’s really a friend of mine, and he’s been solid. He loves his country and he loves his state, Glenn Grothman. Glenn, thank you very much, friend. And a man who just got elected, and he’s from an area that I know very well, we did very well, we got our big, big, fat, beautiful contract that produced lots of jobs. But he was taking a legend’s place, so it’s never easy to replace a legend. That’s Duffy, in case anybody … And they was running and we did a lot of work for him, and it was great.
And he reacted very well under pressure. A lot of people don’t react well under pressure. They choke, they choke. He was under a lot of pressure and he ended up winning by like 18 points. And now, he’s your congressman. He’s doing a great job. You got to vote for all these people on November 3rd, Tom Tiffany. Thank you, Tom. And we have a great congressional candidate, Derrick Van Orden. Where’s Derrick? Derrick, good luck. I hear good things, Derrick. You got my total support. I hear very good things. I could only be supportive. Our record is like 222 and three, so I don’t like to have a loss. And I support you a 100%, you know that. You have my total endorsement, all right? I hear you’re fantastic. All right.
And your former congressman who I hope is making a lot of money in the private sector because he deserves it, especially his wife, Rachel deserves it, she’s just fantastic. He’s fantastic because I know he’s coming back into government in some form. He can come with us. He can stay here. He can maybe run for governor or maybe do something, Sean Duffy. Sean Duffy. No, but he was the World Champion tree climber. And I love sports, right? Anytime you know the world champion at anything, but especially that, and I’ll never forget. I was asking about it. “How was it was?” He said, well, he broke his back numerous times. He broke a lot of bones.
I said, “Let me ask you a question. How much harder was it to go up the tree than down?” He said, “It was easy going up.” The hard part was coming down because if he missed, that was where the danger was, right? That was where the danger. But many times, world champion. Could you still do it today? “A little bit heavier,” he said. You got to carry a little bit more weight. That’s all right. That’s not a good sign though, right? Anyway, great job. We love having you Rachel, thank you very much. You are a friend. Fox and friends, and plenty of other places, right? A lot of personality, a lot of personality. Rachel, she’s been our friend from day one, I think from day one. And her fantastic family too.
Tonight, we’re also praying for everyone in the path of Hurricane Sally. We’re out there working very hard. We are working in Florida and Alabama and Georgia. We have FEMA. We have everybody there. We just finished in … take a look, we just went to Louisiana, Texas. We’re getting hit by some big hurricanes, but we have it under control. Really good. Our coast guard has been fantastic, by the way. Unbelievable, the bravery. They go into these storms. They go into these storms. They say, “How dangerous is it?” “Sir, it’s very dangerous.” I say, “Yeah. All right.” He said, “Would you like to try it sometime?” I say, “Admiral, no, thank you. I’ll take a pass.” I think they might have a problem with me doing it, but I will tell you, they are … In Texas, they saved 16,000 people two years ago, the coast guard, US Coast Guard.
I think there’s no brand to me, that’s gone up more than the US Coast Guard. So it’s great that we’re getting them new ships. Those ships are all coming in. Nice new ones, all built in the USA, beautiful ones. Most of them have already arrived. My administration will be by their side through every step. We’re working again, very, very hard in the Panhandle. The Panhandle, we love the Panhandle. It got hit hard. We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. We passed record tax cuts and regulation cuts. Nobody’s ever done more, more than anybody else has ever done to keep our family farms in the family.
We’ve virtually eliminated the unfair estate tax, also known as the death tax. So if you die in 100 years from now, and you have children who you love as opposed to children that you can stand … is anybody here they have children that they don’t like, or perhaps can’t stand? Because if you do, don’t listen to the rest of this. But if you have a family that you love and you have a small business or farm or whatever, they were being put out of business. They’d have to go and borrow the money to pay the estate tax, the death tax. And it was a terrible thing. We got rid of it, so now you can leave your farm, your small business to your family. And just hope they remember you every once in a while.
It’s always a difficult situation, but it was. It was ruining farms. They’d have to go out and sell the farm, they’d have to go out and get partnerships, they’d have to go out and borrow money from banks. And then all of a sudden they’re in foreclosure proceedings and they’ve never done that before. They don’t have to worry about that anymore. If you love your family, that’s a big deal. They’ve been trying to get that, Sean, for what, 30 years they’ve been trying to get that, right? Especially for the farmers, because it’s that kind of a business. It’s a great business, but it’s day to day. You have a bad crop, all of a sudden you can’t pay interest on a loan to pay your state tax, right? And they lose their farm. So we’re not going to have that anymore.
We achieved American energy independence for the first time. Totally independent. We don’t have to be in those far away places unless we want to be. Biden pledged to abolish American oil, American jail, clean coal, natural gas. He said the fracking, I told you that, but we’re not going to let him get away. We’ll be bringing that up on occasion. For 47 years, Joe Biden crushed the dreams of Wisconsin workers and enriched foreign countries. That’s what happened. Before I got here, what was happening with Japan? And we pay our deep respects to Prime Minister Abe of Japan, a great friend of all of ours, a great friend of mine. He’s going to be leaving office very soon, like in a matter of a day. And he was a great gentleman. He’s a tough negotiator, I’ll tell you that. He made very good deals against the United States, but he’s somebody that’s going to be missed. He’s a great gentleman. He championed every special interest, Biden, every special interest. And he sold out on trade. He sold out like almost nobody ever before.
Earlier this year, I kept my promise to American workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. I saved the US auto industry by withdrawing from the last administration’s job killing catastrophe, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. You ever hear of that beauty? That would have really hit you. In 2017, I signed a historic executive order making government policy to buy American and hire American. I’m watching this Biden and he’s got his sign in front, “Buy American. Oh, by American.” I’ve been saying that for like 20 years, right? Where the hell has this guy been? They were actually accusing him of plagiarism. I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s rampant theft of Wisconsin jobs. And it’s all jobs, but you got hit particularly hard. Biden has vowed to remove those tariffs and allow China to resume its pillaging. He wants to take the tariffs off that are paying us tens of billions of dollars a year. I fought like hell to keep them into the China deal and he wants to remove them. So tens of billions of dollars, billions and billions, I gave it to the farmers. I gave it to a lot of people, but I gave most of it by far, to the US Treasury. He wants to take them off. So let me just ask you just a very innocent question. There’s a young man, about four years old up front, I think he could give the answer. Who do you think would like to have China? How do you think China would feel about this election?
In one case, they paid billions and billions of dollars a month to the US. We never got ever, 25 cents from China. In the other case, he said, “We’re going to take them off.” I think they might be inclined to go for Sleepy Joe. This is like a dream for China. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the USA. It’s very simple.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
So we did many things. Not only China, not only the $28 billion farmers. We did so much and I’m proud to announce that I’m doing even more to support Wisconsin farmers. Starting next week, my administration is committing an additional, you’ve been asking for this for a long time, $13 billion in relief to help farmers recover from the China virus, including Wisconsin’s incredible dairy, cranberry and ginseng farmers who got hurt badly. Been after that money for a long time. When the Wisconsin timber industry was threatened, I imposed tariffs on dumped foreign timber and subsidized products, saving many, many timber jobs in your state. If Joe Biden gets in, the radical left will shut down Wisconsin’s timber production for environmental reasons. Do you believe that? Oh, boy. It’s so sad to see it, and that would happen. But we can’t let that happen. We’ve come too far. We’re so good. If that virus hadn’t hit us, and it did, and it hit the whole world, but if it hadn’t hit us, we would have numbers the likes of which nobody thought were even remotely possible. But it did, and we saved a lot of lives. They keep saying, “Oh, they just …” By the way, if we had two people die, they would have said he did a terrible job. If we had 100 people die, if we had 1000, no matter what we do. We have trade deals. We announced a trade deal, everybody is saying how great it is. Schumer and Pelosi see it, they have no idea what the deal is, “We don’t like the deal.” Did you look at it? “Oh, of course, we looked at it. It doesn’t have tariffs. Oh no, it does have tariffs.” They know nothing about the deal.
Automatically, anything we do, they just take the reverse. But you know what? I’d probably do it to them too, so I can’t complain. And perhaps no issue have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration. Under my administration, we’ve achieved the most secure border in American history. We ended the catch and release. You know what catch and release is? You catch up them, they may be a killer, they may be a criminal at the highest order, you take their name. Then you’re supposed to bring them to a court, like Perry Mason, right? But we actually catch them, take their name, release them, say, “Come back in about four years for your court case.” We ended all this stuff. And you think that was easy? It wasn’t easy, let me tell you.
It was tough, but we have a really good, secure border. And the president of Mexico has been terrific. We right now have 27,000 soldiers from Mexico guarding our border, free of charge. We stopped asylum fraud, and we’ve deported 20,000 gang members and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens of the worst kind. We’re enforcing the clear requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient and not reliant on welfare. They have to sign a document. We invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military, including major contracts to build new warships that helped save the historic shipyard in Marinette. How about that? I was there two months ago.
Marinette. That’s a great company, but it was having a hard time. And now, they’re building, what was that, like $6 billion worth of ships? And their beauties. They’ve started already, and we worked very hard on that. And we had a lot of help from your congressman on that one, because a lot of people wanted that contract. But we got it for Wisconsin, remember that. We launched the first new branch of the United States Armed Forces in nearly 75 years. That’s right, the Space Force. The fact is, and somebody said it on the other side, an opponent said whether you like it or not, Trump actually did more as president than he promised during the campaign. Like Space Force, that’s a big deal. Think of it; army, navy, air force, marine.
… Think of it, Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, right. Think of it. I mean, that’s all you heard your whole life, right. The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, Coast Guard; and now, we have the Space Force. You know what a big deal, first time in 75 years, it’s a new one. Last one was 75 years ago. The Air Force, right. That’s a big thing. I never talked about that on the campaign, I never even thought about it. When I became president, I said, “We have to do this.” Because I saw what Russia was doing, and I saw what China was doing. And, they’ve created their Space Forces, I said, “What are we going to do?, not have it.” It’s going to end up being maybe your most important or certainly one of your most important because that’s where it’s at, in terms of defense, in terms of offense. We passed VA choice and VA accountability for our great veterans that we had the other day.
Veterans satisfaction, 91 percent, the highest score we’ve ever received. You haven’t noticed, remember years ago, every story, every night, the Nightly News, you’d always have horrible stories about the VA, you don’t see it anymore. Now, I don’t want to give them any ideas, because they’ll search all over the country for a vet who’s unhappy. I’m hurting myself by telling this story. This is not a good story. But remember that, every night you’d have these horror stories about the VA. You don’t see that anymore. 91 percent approval rating. I kept my promise recognized the Capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.
I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieve the first breakthrough in the Middle East peace; and, you saw that two days ago, UAE, Bahrain, Israel, nobody thought it was even possible. I saw John Kerry on television the other day. “It is not possible.” Then we waited a little while. He went very, very strong, “It is not possible.” And, it was not only possible, we have many countries that are joining us very soon. We killed the founder and the leader, the vicious leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, we killed him. And, we also took out the world’s number one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many, many troops and many people, all over the world. Qasem Soleimani is dead, he’s dead, bad guy, bad guy, very bad guy.
We kept America out of new wars and we’re bringing our troops back home. No one has been more wrong, more often than sleepy Joe Biden. He voted for the Iraq War, he supported the defense sequester that gutted our military. I took over a military that was totally depleted, like. Hillary Clinton deleted, as opposed to depleted, she depleted them too; but, she deleted 33,000 emails. When is somebody going to pull the spring? Ah, come on fellows.
No, that’s terrible. 33,000 emails. Try going to court sometime on a civil case, and when you go before the judge, he’ll say, “Did you delete those emails?” “Did you get rid of those texts?” “Did you this…, Right.” And, now they caught Weissmann and all these guys cleaning their phones because they were under investigation, and they cleaned their phones. How many were there? 21, but they were like 33 phones. And yet, look what they do to General Flynn, and some of these people that did nothing. They cleaned their criminals, yeah, that’s criminal, it’s criminal, they’re criminals. They talk and talk and talk, they’re criminals. They clean their phone, so you don’t have any of the information, but that’s a big problem for them, I would imagine.
It’s a disgrace that they can do it. But, Hillary got rid of… She deleted and acid-wash, right. Who acid-washed? Did you ever… And, she also used to bang them with a hammer, remember that, we forgot that, right. So, let’s see what happens with all of that stuff. I think Bill Barr’s doing an excellent job, I have to tell you. And, he’s fighting a very bad establishment in Washington. There’s some bad apples in that whole deal. But, if you think that Biden opposed the mission to take out of Osama bin Laden, he was against it.
He opposed the killing of Soleimani. He oversaw the rise of ISIS, what a mistake. And, he cheered the rise of China as a very positive development for America and the world, I don’t think so. I don’t think so. It’s not been too positive. If it were up to sleepy, Joe Biden, bin Ladin and Soleimani, would be alive. ISIS would still be on the rampage and China would now be the dominant power in the world and there not even close, I will tell you. We have weaponry, the likes of which nobody’s seen. 2.5 trillion buys you some good stuff, especially when we have the finest scientific minds and military minds in the world.
We have weapons, the likes of which nobody’s seen, and just hope to God, we never have to use them. I say that, and I say, it’s strongly. Hope that we never have to use them. My attitude was that, and I’ve learned this a long time ago, by having them, we keep ourselves out of war, as opposed to bringing ourselves in war. But, we have built and created weapons, the likes of which this world has never seen before. And, we don’t have to talk about it too much, nor do I really want to talk about it. When I ban travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic, he said, “He’s xenophobic.” What does that mean? Joe, tell me. Biden also opposed my plan to ban Europe, I saw what was happening in France and Spain and Italy, and highly infected, we banned Europe. If we had insisted and listened to Joe and insisted on doing what so many other people said doing, which is, “You don’t have to do the ban.” Hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died from the plague. Biden was willing to sacrifice American lives, on the altar of open borders. And now, I hear him talking, he should have followed me. This guy did the swine flu, right, it was a catastrophe. And, the man that headed up the swine flu, I won’t use his name because I’d like to have him have a nice evening, because I can’t imagine the democrats are thrilled. He said, “It was a horrible job, we had no idea what we were doing, it was a disaster.” He said, “It was a disaster.” And now, Biden’s telling us how to do what we’re doing so well on, what other countries are calling me and congratulating me on the incredible job. And I got sleepy, Joe Biden, trying to tell me how to do it. And, his own man who headed it up, swine flu, it’s H1N1 swine flu. Joe called it, N1H1. I keep saying Joe, Joe, it’s H1N1, right.
I said, “It’s easier to remember because H comes before N,” but he can’t do it. And then, you saw what he said the other day under a Harris-Biden administration. That was a disaster. I never said under a Pence Trump administration, he said, “Under a Harris-Biden administration.” And, what made it worse, is she said the same thing. That was terrible, right. Sean, right. Did you hear that? They are a disaster together.
Through our historic relief programs, we saved more than 1 million Wisconsin jobs and 87,000 Wisconsin businesses, that’s not too bad. And, Biden would demolish all of those games, and we’ve done similar things in other states. He would destroy your social security, totally destroy it, and destroy protections for preexisting conditions. They want to go to social medicine, they want to go to social… You know that, right. You do know that. They want social healthcare where you don’t… Remember Obama 28 times, you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan, that didn’t work out too well, right. Why haven’t they looked into that one, 28 times. Well, under Medicare for All, but it’s basically socialized healthcare, you will never have your doctor, you will never have your plan. You’ll have horrible healthcare. You’re going to wait long times, long times. And, he wants to wipe out 180 million private healthcare plans that people love, 180 million plans. I don’t think so. I don’t think he’s going to make it. How do you get elected? Let’s say you’re doing, not only here, let’s say Texas, right, he’s against oil, he’s against God and he’s against guns.
That’s a tough combination in Texas. How does that apply? Now, he’s against religion. They won’t open these blue states, they will not open your churches. They won’t open them. And, I think they have an ulterior motive. One thing they have is, probably everything opens on November 4th, you understand that. And, they better be careful, those paper ballots you talk about, a bad thing, just get out and vote, get out and vote. And, if you have to go that route, make sure they have it counted. And, they know it’s trouble. They just had another election today, fellows, where it’s a disaster. The votes come in, they have no idea, they can’t count them. And, I don’t mean they’re off by a little bit, they’re off by 20 percent, 25 percent. There’s fraud. There’s missing ballots. They have a woman in New York who is a terrible congresswoman, you know that.
Carolyn Maloney. They gave her an election, they can’t even find the ballots. And, they gave her a victory, and they cant find that the guy that is against her, who did very well, even though he’s even more progressive, I don’t even know what she is. I’ve known her for 25 years. I don’t think she’s progressive. I think she’s whatever she has to be. But this guy, probably or possibly beat her. So, rightfully he’s not too happy. And, they called the election for her and they can’t find the ballots. Wants to force you to provide free healthcare to illegal aliens, you remember he raised his hand, that will totally drain your wonderful Medicare. Remember the question up there, he’s standing up, ” Who is willing to give free healthcare to illegal aliens.” And, everybody raises their hands like fast. Kamala was right up there. By the way, that will destroy your country, you do know that. Because you can’t afford it, and Biden’s looking around, “Oh, they all raise their hand.” He goes, remember. I remember. I said, “Well, there it goes, the election for him.”
He’s end our travel bans on jihadist regions and increase refugee admissions by over 700 percent. And, that’s the deal he made with Bernie Sanders, opening the flood gates to terror, afflicted nations. But I predict the Sanders people are going to vote for us, like they did the last time. We had a tremendous…. Because they love my stance on trade, because I know trade, and I was telling him much more so, than even Bernie. But Bernie, is right on that subject, that other countries, including our so-called allies are ripping us off on trade. Biden opposes, school choice and vowed to ban charter schools. Did you know that? Does everybody like charter schools? Everybody likes choice. In the second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. We’re all set up to get it done. A vote for republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans.
It’s really a vote for the American dream, instead of letting Washington change us. And, despite all that we’ve all gone through. We are changing Washington, that’s what’s been happening. And, just in conclusion, and I hate concluding with you because I like you. I like you. I don’t know why the hell I like Wisconsin, but for some reason. You know what helps so, as you know for weeks before the election, she was four up, crooked Hillary, four up, four up, four up, I kept saying, “Do you think we’re going to win?” And I will say, Sean Duffy said, “You’re going to win.” He actually said, “Don’t worry about it.” Right, Sean. I said, “Sean do you think we’re going to win here?” I don’t like these polls, but four down. He said, “Sir, you’re going to win so easy.” And, early in the night, they said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin.”
And, so when I’m here, speaking in the freezing cold, I’m lucky they had… I said, “Do you think we have…?” It’s very warm in New York and very warm in Washington, it was hot actually. And I said, “Do you think we have a coat on the plane?” They said, “Yes.” I said, “What’s the temperature?” “Sir, it’s 49 degrees.” I said, “How about giving me a coat?” They have everything on Air Force One, that’s the great thing. Got more televisions in any plane in history. They’ve got televisions in closets, on floors, on ceiling. But, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And, we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We’ll make our medical supplies right here in the United States, and right here in the great state of Wisconsin. We will rapidly return to full employment, that’s happening very fast, soaring economies; and the record prosperity will be even greater than it was, last year. We will hire more police, increase penalties on assaults of law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities. And, we will ban sanctuary cities, which are deadly.
We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda. We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious Liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear Arms.
We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of endless Foreign Wars. And, you remember with me, they thought because of my personality, they said, “He’ll be in war the first week.” What happened to the war? Remember, we were going to be in war with North Korea. Hillary would have been in war with North Korea. It would have been a nasty one too. But remember, everybody said, I was going to be in war. Everybody said, “Oh, maybe I’ll do something with social security.” And, I did. I saved it and made it stronger. And now, I’m going to make it even stronger. And, they’re going to get rid of your social security because everything’s going to come collapsing down. You will have a depression.
If he gets in, they’re going to raise interest rates. They’re going to raise your taxes, you will have a depression. The likes of which this country has never seen before. And, your 401k’s and your stocks and jobs will go down in flames. I just say it here, hopefully we’re never going to experience it, but that’s what’s going to happen. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which I’ve already signed. Further reduced health insurance premiums, or the costs of prescription drugs, which are coming down now. You know, I signed favored nations clauses, their drug companies are not happy with me, I will tell you. They never thought it was possible and rebate clauses. They never thought anybody would do that to them. They made enough money for a long time. It’s time, you got a big break. We will strongly protect Medicare and social security. And, we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always, you have a pledge.
We will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And, NASA is now the hottest space center anywhere in the world. And, when I took over three and a half years ago, there was grass growing in the runways, you know that it was closed down, it was a mess. We are now the hottest in the world. You see what’s going up. And, we’ve got a lot of rich guys sending them up too. I liked that better. I said, “Let them do it.” Rich guys like rockets, I don’t know, they like rocket, boom. I see dollars going right up, but they need a good place to launch. We have the best places. We have the best places, so it’s been incredible what we’ve done with NASA. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We’re already there again. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.
And, we will live by the timeless works of our national motto, In God We Trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America, and standing up for the State of Wisconsin. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, get everybody and get out and vote, November 3rd. From Milwaukee to Madison, from Oshkosh to La Crosse. From Green Bay, how the Packers doing so far? Good team, good people, to right here in… Give me the proper pronunciation. That’s right, thank you, that’s what I said.
We inherit the legacy of generations of Wisconsin Patriots, who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed a wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism; and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And, you haven’t seen anything yet. Proud citizens like you, helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you all. To Secretary Carson, Secretary Devos, Dr. Larry Yarn, educators, students, and participants, and all those looking on for this White House Conference on American history, welcome to the National Archives. It’s an honor to be with you all.
Please.
Today is Constitution Day, a day in which we celebrate the work of genius that’s preserved in these very halls. 233 years ago today, our founders completed what for them was the work of a nation, but for humanity, a work for the ages: the Constitution of the United States of America.
For the first time in history, a government was founded by we, the people, to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of Liberty for themselves and their posterity. John Adams, our first Vice-President, aptly described our Constitution in his words as, “The single greatest effort of national deliberation that the world has ever seen.” And so it was. But we all know the summer of 1787 didn’t just happen. It was preceded by the summer of 1776 and the signing of our Declaration of Independence, whose magisterial words continue to echo into our time, that we as Americans hold certain truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal and endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights. And that among these are life, and liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
With those words, America laid the foundations for a government whose purpose, in the words of President Abraham Lincoln was, and I quote, “to elevate the condition of men, to lift artificial weights from all shoulders, to clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all.” As the word, inscribed on the walls of these National Archives read: “This building holds, in trust, the records of our national life and symbolizes our faith in the permanency of our national institutions.” The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution are the greatest charters of freedom the world has ever known.
The character of our people and the principles enshrined there are the reason for our nation’s unparalleled success, and they remain the greatest bulwark against tyranny in history. And the reason is simple: our founders knew history. Sadly, we live in a time when too many are forgetting history. Today, Thomas Jefferson warned that, “if a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and never will be.” But sadly, we live in a time when some seek to erase our history and deny our nation’s relentless march toward a more perfect union.
As President Trump has observed, in too many of our schools and universities, millions of young people are educated by those who seek to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values, and indoctrinate our children. But we gather here today, soon to hear from the President of the United States, as Americans who are committed to affirming the greatness of this nation and the ideals of our founders.
Our President understands what we all understand, if we don’t teach the next generation the principles enshrined in these halls, we can’t expect them to preserve them. No one can preserve what they do not love, and no one can love what they do not know. That’s why on this Constitution Day, our President will reaffirm our commitment to the principles and liberties that this administration has championed from day one, and take measurable steps to ensure that future generations will continue to understand the historical and philosophical roots of our nation.
What we do here today is a part of our ongoing commitment to ensure that the rising generation will be able to do their part, as we know they will, to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. And this we know they will do because these principles are not just enshrined in these National Archives, they’re enshrined in the hearts of the American people.
And I know these great principles will prevail because like our President, I have faith in the American people. And I have faith that he who guided our founders on this day, 233 years ago, guides us still. For as the father of our Constitution, James Madison, reflected on this day. And I quote, “it is impossible not to perceive in it a finger of that almighty hand, which has been so frequently and signally extended to our relief at critical stages of the revolution.” So it’s Constitution Day in America, and with gratitude to all of those who have gone before and gratitude to all of you who are gathered here, who love and cherish our heritage of freedom, with gratitude to God who has ever guided the destiny of this land, and gratitude to a President who has ever championed the freedoms and ideals enshrined in this place, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Great Vice-President.
I’m truly honored to be here at the very first White House Conference on American History. So important. Our mission is to defend the legacy of America’s founding, the virtue of America’s heroes, and the nobility of the American character. We must clear away the twisted web of lies in our schools and classrooms and teach our children the magnificent truth about our country. We want our sons and daughters to know that they are the citizens of the most exceptional nation in the history of the world.
To grow up in America is to live in a land where anything is possible, where anyone can rise, and where any dream can come true. All because of the immortable principles our nation’s founders inscribed nearly two and a half centuries ago. That’s why we’ve come to the National Archives, the sacred home of our national memory. In this great chamber, we preserve our glorious inheritance, the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, Bill of Rights. On this very day in 1787, our founding fathers signed the Constitution at Independence Hall in Philadelphia. It was the fulfillment of a thousand years of Western civilization. Our Constitution was the product of centuries of tradition, wisdom, and experience. No political document has done more to advance the human condition or propel the engine of progress. Yet, as we gather this afternoon, a radical movement is attempting to demolish this treasured and precious inheritance. We can’t let that happen.
The left wing mobs have torn down statues of our founders, desecrated our memorials, and carried out a campaign of violence and anarchy. Far left demonstrators have chanted the words, “America was never great.” The Left has launched a vicious and violent assault on law enforcement, the universal symbol of the rule of law in America. These radicals have been aided and abetted by liberal politicians, establishment, media, and even large corporations. Whether it is the mob on the street or the cancel culture in the boardroom, the goal is the same: to silence dissent, to scare you out of speaking the truth, and to bully Americans into abandoning their values, their heritage, and their very way of life.
We are here today to declare that we will never submit to tyranny. We will reclaim our history and our country for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. The radicals burning American flags want to burn down the principles enshrined in our founding documents, including the bedrock principle of equal justice under law. In order to radically transform America, they must first cause Americans to lose confidence in who we are, where we came from, and what we believe.
As I said at Mount Rushmore, which they would love to rip down and rip it down fast, that’s never going to happen. Two months ago, the left wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the American revolution. As many of you testified today, the left wing rioting and mayhem are the direct result of decades of left wing indoctrination in our schools. It’s gone on far too long. Our children are instructed from propaganda tracks like those of Howard Zinn that try to make students ashamed of their own history. The Left has warped, distorted, and defiled the American story with deceptions, falsehoods, and lies.
There’s no better example than the New York Times totally discredited 1619 Project. This project rewrites American history to teach our children that we were founded on the principle of oppression, not freedom. Nothing could be further from the truth. America’s founding set in motion the unstoppable chain of events that abolished slavery, secured civil rights, defeated communism and fascism, and built the most fair, equal, and prosperous nation in human history.
The narratives about America being pushed by the far left and being chanted in the streets bear a striking resemblance to the anti-American propaganda of our adversaries, because both groups want to see America weakened, derided, and totally diminished. Students in our universities are inundated with Critical Race Theory. This is a Marxist document holding that America is a wicked and racist nation, that even young children are complicit in oppression, and that our entire society must be radically transformed. Critical Race Theory is being forced into our children’s schools, it’s being imposed into workplace trainings, and it’s being deployed to rip apart friends, neighbors, and families.
A perfect example of Critical Race Theory was recently published by the Smithsonian Institution. This document alleged that concepts such as hard work, rational thinking, and the nuclear family, and belief in God were not values that unite all Americans, but we’re instead aspects of whiteness. This is offensive and outrageous to Americans of every ethnicity and it’s especially harmful to children of minority backgrounds who should be uplifted, not disparaged. Teaching this horrible doctrine to our children is a form of child abuse in the truest sense of those words. For many years now, the radicals have mistaken American’s silence for weakness, but they’re wrong. There is no more powerful force than a parent’s love for their children, and patriotic moms and dads are going to demand that their children are no longer fed hateful lies about this country. American parents are not going to accept indoctrination in our schools, cancel culture at our work, or the repression of traditional faith, culture, and values in the public square. Not anymore.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
We embrace the vision of Martin Luther King, where children are not judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. The Left is attempting to destroy that beautiful vision and divide Americans by race, in the service of political power. By viewing every issue through the lens of race, they want to impose a new segregation and we must not allow that to happen. Critical Race Theory, the 1619 Project, and the crusade against American history is toxic propaganda. Ideological poison, that if not removed will dissolve the civic bonds that tie us together, will destroy our country. That is why I recently banned trainings in this prejudiced ideology from the federal government and banned it in the strongest manner possible.
The only path to national unity is through our shared identity as Americans. That is why it is so urgent that we finally restore patriotic education to our schools. Under our leadership, the National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded a grant to support the development of a pro-American curriculum that celebrates the truth about our nation’s great history.
We’re joined by some of the respected scholars involved in this project, including Professor Wilford McClay. Wilford? Please. Thank you very much, Wilford. Thank you.
Dr. Peter Wood of the National Association of Scholars. Dr. Peter?
And Ted Rebarber. Thank you, Ted. Thank you very much, Ted.
Today, I’m also pleased to announce that I was soon sign an executive order establishing a national commission to promote patriotic education. It will be called the 1776 Commission.
Thank you. It will encourage our educators to teach our children about the miracle of American history and make plans to honor the 250th anniversary of our founding. Think of that, 250 years. Recently, I also signed an executive order to establish the National Garden of American Heroes, a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans who have ever lived. Today, I’m announcing a new name for inclusion. One of the 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence was a Patriot from Delaware. In July of 1776, the Continental Congress was deadlocked during the debate over independence. The delegation from Delaware was divided. Caesar Rodney was called upon to break the tie. Even though he was suffering from very advanced cancer, he was deathly ill, Rodney rode 80 miles through the night, through a severe thunderstorm, from Dover to Philadelphia, to cast his vote for independence.
For nearly a century, a statue of one of Delaware’s most beloved citizens stood in Rodney Square, right in the heart of Wilmington. But this past June, Caesar Rodney’s statue was ordered removed by the mayor and local politicians as part of a radical purge of America’s founding generation. Today, because of an order I signed, if you demolish a statue without permission, you immediately get 10 years in prison.
And there have been no statues demolished for the last four months, incredibly, since the time I signed that act. Joe Biden said nothing as to his home state’s history and the fact that it was dismantled, and dismembered, and a founding fathers statue was removed. Today, America will give this founding father, this very brave man who was so horribly treated, the place of honor he deserves. I am announcing that the statue of Caesar Rodney will be added to the National Garden of American Heroes.
From Washington to Lincoln, from Jefferson to King, America has been home to some of the most incredible people who have ever lived. With the help of everyone here today, the legacy of 1776 will never be erased. Our heroes will never be forgotten. Our youth will be taught to love America with all of their heart and all of their soul. We will save this cherished inheritance for our children, for their children, and for every generation to come. This is a very important day. Thank you all once again for being here. Now I will sign the Constitution Day proclamation. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States, accompanied by the prime minister of the state of Israel, His Highness, the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation of the United Arab Emirates and the minister of the foreign affairs of the kingdom of Bahrain.
Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. The First Lady and I are honored to welcome to the White House Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel, and Mrs. Netanyahu. Thank you so much. Thank you, Sara. And Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed, United Arab Emirates, UAE. Thank you very much.
And Foreign Minister Abdullatif Al Zayani of Bahrain. Thank you. Thank you very much. We’re here this afternoon to change the course of history. After decades of division and conflict, we mark the dawn of a new Middle East. Thanks to the great courage of the leaders of these three countries, we take a major stride toward a future in which people of all faiths and backgrounds live together in peace and prosperity. In a few moments, these visionary leaders will sign the first two peace deals between Israel and the Arab state in more than a quarter century. In Israel’s entire history, there have previously been only two such agreements; now we have achieved two in a single month, and there are more to follow.
Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain will establish embassies, exchange ambassadors, and begin to cooperate and work together so strongly, to cooperate as partners across the broad range of sectors from tourism to trade and healthcare to security; they’re going to work together. They are friends.
The Abraham Accords also open the door for Muslims around the world to visit the historic sites in Israel and to peacefully pray at Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, the third holiest site in Islam.
Together, these agreements will serve as the foundation for a comprehensive piece across the entire region, something which nobody thought was possible, certainly not in this day and age, maybe in many decades from now, but one founded on shared interests, mutual respect and friendship, to our honored guests from Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. Congratulations on this outstanding achievement. Congratulations. Fantastic.
I also want to thank Vice President Mike Pence. Thank you, Mike. Great job. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Mike, thank you very much. National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien. Robert, thank you. Mr. Jared Kushner. Jared, thank you very much. Ambassador Brian Hook. Thank you very much, Brian. Thank you. Thank you. And Avi Berkowitz. Avi, thank you very much. I also want to give a very special thanks, he’s been an incredible ambassador to Israel, David Friedman. That’s a very great group of people, great group of patriots. They wanted this to happen so badly, they worked so hard, and again, nobody thought it could happen and they thought it could happen; they never even doubted it. So I want to thank you all very much. Thank you. For generations, the people of the Middle East have been held back by old conflicts, hostilities, lies treachery; so many things held them back. Actually, lies that the Jews and Arabs were enemies and that Al Aqsa Mosque was under attack. Constantly, they would say it was under attack. These lies passed down from generation to generation fueled a vicious cycle of terror and violence that spread across the region and all over the world. These agreements prove that the nations of the region are breaking free from the failed approaches of the past. Today’s signing sets history on a new course, and there will be other countries very, very soon that will follow these great leaders.
The people of the Middle East will no longer allow hatred of Israel to be fomented as an excuse for radicalism or extremism. So important. And they’ll no longer allow the great destiny of their region to be denied. On my first foreign trip as president, I had the honor of addressing the leaders of more than 54 Arab and Muslim nations in Saudi Arabia. My message that day was very simple. I urged the nations of the Middle East to set aside their differences, unite against the common enemy of civilization, and work together toward the noble aims of security and prosperity. I offered America’s friendship, I offered America’s help, but I said clearly that the nations of the regions had to decide what kind of a future they wanted for their children and for their families and for their nation itself. No one could make that choice for them. They had to do that themselves.
Today, the world sees that they’re choosing cooperation over conflict, friendship over enmity, prosperity over poverty, and hope over despair. They are choosing a future in which Arabs and Israelis, Muslims, Jews, and Christians can live together, pray together and dream together, side by side in harmony, community and peace. Once again, let me congratulate the people of Israel, the people of the United Arab Emirates and the people of the kingdom of Bahrain. God bless you all. This is an incredible day for the world. This is a really wonderful and beautiful occasion.
I want to thank all of the members of Congress for being here, senators, Congressmen, Congresswoman. We just appreciate it so much. Everybody wanted to be here. It’s a very important day for the world. It’s a very important day for peace. Before the parties sign the Accords, I’d like to ask Prime Minister Netanyahu to say a few words, followed by the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates and the foreign minister of Bahrain. Thank you very much. It’s a great honor. Thank you.
Our dear friend, President Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, thank you for hosting me, my wife, Sara, and our entire delegation on this historic day. I want to recognize Vice President Pence, Secretary Pompeo, National Security Advisor O’Brien, and other Cabinet members, Jared Kushner, Avi Berkowitz, Ambassador Friedman, and other members of the President’s able peace team, Senators, members of Congress, Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer, his Emirate and Bahraini counterparts, as well as all the dignitaries gathered here on this sunny day. I want to also express my gratitude for all the Israelis who’ve worked for years, sometimes in less sunny [inaudible 00:10:31], to bring this date. And I thank each and every one of you. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, this day is a pivot of history. It heralds a new dawn of peace. For thousands of years, the Jewish people have prayed for peace. For decades, the Jewish state has prayed for peace. And this is why, today, we’re filled with such profound gratitude. I am grateful to you, President Trump, for your decisive leadership. You have unequivocally stood by Israel’s side. You have boldly confronted the tyrants of Tehran. You’ve proposed a realistic vision for peace between Israel and the Palestinians, and you have successfully brokered the historic peace that we are signing today, a peace that has broad support in Israel, in America, in the Middle East, indeed in the entire world. I am grateful to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of the United Arab Emirates, and to you, Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed.
I thank you both for your wise leadership and for working with the United States in Israel to expand the circle of peace. I am grateful. I’m grateful to King Hamad of Bahrain, and to you foreign minister Abdullatif al-Zayani for joining us. Joining us in bringing hope to all the children of Abraham.
To all of Israel’s friends in the Middle East, those who are with us today, and those who will join us tomorrow. I say, [foreign language 00:00:51], peace onto the, Shalom. And you have heard from the president, that he is already lining up more and more countries. This is unimaginable a few years ago, but with resolve, determination, a fresh look at the way peace is done, this is being achieved. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Israel, well know the price of war. I know the price of war. I was wounded in battle, a fellow soldier, a very close friend of mine, died in my arms. My brother [Yoni 00:01:56], lost his life while leading his soldiers, to rescue hostages held by terrorists at Entebbe. My parents’ grief over the loss of Yoni, was unrelieved until their dying day. And over the years, when I’ve come to console the families of Israel’s fallen soldiers and victims of terror, I’ve seen that same grief countless times, and this is why I am so deeply moved to be here today. For those who bear the wounds of war, cherish the blessings of peace. And the blessings of the peace we make today, will be enormous. First, because this peace, will eventually expand to include other Arab States. And ultimately, it can end the Arab Israeli conflict once and for all.
Second, because the great economic benefits of our partnership will be felt throughout our region and they will reach every one of our citizens. And third, because this is not only a peace between leaders, it’s a peace between peoples, Israelis, Emirates, and [Bahrainis 00:03:42], are already embracing one another. We are eager to invest in a future of partnership, prosperity and peace. We’ve already begun to cooperate on combating Corona, and I’m sure that together we can find solutions to many of the problems that afflict our region and beyond. So, despite the many challenges and hardships that we all face, despite all that, let us pause for a moment to appreciate this remarkable day. Let us rise above any political divide. Let us put all cynicism aside, let us feel on this day, the pulse of history. For long after the pandemic has gone, the peace we make today will endure. Ladies and gentlemen, I have devoted my life to securing Israel’s place among the nations, to ensure the future of the one and only Jewish state. To accomplish that goal, I work to make Israel strong, very strong. For history has taught us, that strength brings security, strength brings allies, and ultimately, and this is something president Trump has said again and again, ultimately strength brings peace.
King David expressed this basic truth thousands of years ago in our eternal capital Jerusalem. His prayer immortalized in the book of Psalms in the Bible, echos from our glorious past and guides us towards a brilliant future. [foreign language 00:05:38] May God give strength to his people. May God bless his people with peace.
Mr. President, distinguished guests, this week is Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish new year, and what a blessing we bring to this new year. A blessing of friendship, a blessing of hope, a blessing of peace. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, his Highness, the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation of the United Arab Emirates.
Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, and my friend [foreign language 00:18:54]. Distinguished guests, [foreign language 00:06:58]. Let me start by conveying the best regards of the UAE people and the leadership. And especially [foreign language 00:19:13], to you Mr. President and everyone gathered here today. I’ll continue my speech in Arabic and I’m sure there will be translation to that.
[foreign language 00:07:29]
I stand here today to extend a hand of peace and receive a hand of peace. In our faith, we say, “Oh God, you are peace and from you comes peace.” The search for peace is an innate principle. Yet principles are effectively realized when they are transformed into action. Today, we are already witnessing a change in the heart of the Middle East, a change that will send hope around the world.
This initiative would not have been possible without the efforts of his Excellency, President Donald Trump and his team who worked hard and sincerely for us all to reach here. Most notably my counterpart, secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, and Jared Kushner, senior advisor to the President of the United States, and all those who are genuine about the principle of peace in the United States, who have strived to realize this measure achievement. Thank you. Your Excellency Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, prime minister of the state of Israel, thank you for choosing peace and for halting the annexation of Palestinian Territories. A decision that reinforces our shared will to achieve a better future for generations to come.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing today a new trend that will create a better path for the Middle East. This peace accord, which is a historic achievement for the United States of America, the state of Israel and the United Arab Emirates will continue to have a positive impact, as we believe that its reverberations will be reflected on the entire region. Every option other than peace, would signify destruction, poverty, and human suffering. This new vision, which is beginning to take shape as we meet today for the future of the region full of youthful energy, is not a slogan that we raise for political gain. As everyone looks forward to creating a more stable, prosperous and secure future.
… to creating a more stable, prosperous and secure future.
At a time when science is prevailing, the region’s youth are looking forward to taking part in this great humanitarian movement. We are pleased that the United Arab Emirates will be part of the momentum towards stability and the growth of human potential in a new, civilized approach that opens wide the doors of opportunity for those who look forward towards peace, prosperity and the future. Our societies today possess the foundation of modern human development, such as infrastructure, a solid economy and scientific achievements that will enable them to advance the future of the Middle East. The United Arab Emirates believes that the role of the United States in the Middle East is positive, and this belief is evidenced by the accord that we are signing today at the White House for which you have taken the lead and will remain a beacon in human history for all peace-loving people around the world. And as for us in the United Arab Emirates, this accord will enable us to continue to stand by the Palestinian people and realize their hopes for an independent state within a stable and prosperous region. This accord builds upon previous peace agreements signed by Arab nations with the State of Israel. The aim of all these treaties is to work towards stability and sustainable development.
In this difficult year, when the world is suffering from the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic, my country, the United Arab Emirates, has reinforced its humanitarian commitments established by our nation’s founding father, Sheikh Zayed, who taught us that standing with others, regardless of their religious or ethnic affiliation, is a humanitarian duty and a firm principle.
During this difficult time, the United Arab Emirates, my country, was able to launch a probe to Mars. The Hope Probe indeed represents hope that our region is capable of advancement and progress, if governments and people embrace science. After the United Arab Emirates sent astronaut, Hazzaa al-Mansoori, last year as the first Arab astronaut to reach the International Space Station, and launched a peaceful nuclear power plant, this accord opened up prospects for a comprehensive peace in the region.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very [crosstalk 00:05:47].
Ladies and gentlemen, peace requires courage, and shaping the future requires knowledge. The advancement of nations requires sincerity and persistence. We have come today to tell the world that this is our approach, and that peace is our guiding principle. Those who begin things in the right way will reap achievements, with the grace of God. Thank you.
Thank you very much [inaudible 00:30:14].
With grace of God, sir.
Thank you very much. I appreciate [inaudible 00:30:17].
Thank you.
Great job.
Ladies and gentlemen, the minister of the foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Mr. President, the First Lady, Prime Minister, Your Highness, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon.
For too long, the Middle East has been set back by conflict and mistrust, causing untold destruction and thwarting the potential of generations of our best and brightest young people. Now, I’m convinced we have the opportunity to change that. Today’s declaration was made possible by the vision, courage and commitment of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, who, supported by the people of Bahrain, has protected, institutionalized and enhanced Bahrain’s centuries-old spirit of coexistence and harmony, and has the wisdom to recognize that genuine cooperation is the most effective means to achieve peace and to safeguard legitimate rights. Thank you, Your Majesty, for this vision of peace for the region based on trust, respect and understanding between all faiths, races and nations. To our brothers in the United Arab Emirates, I congratulate you on your own momentous peace accord being signed today with Israel. His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, has shown great leadership and foresight to make peace possible and secure a brighter future for our region.
For the state of Israel and Prime Minister Netanyahu, we welcome and appreciate these steps from you and your government, recognizing that enduring peace and security is only possible through a genuine engagement that protects the rights and interests of countries and peoples in the region.
In particular, I want to express my deep appreciation to President Donald Trump and his administration. Mr. President, your statesmanship and tireless efforts have brought us here today and made peace a reality. And to Secretary Pompeo, Senior Advisor Jared Kushner and Special Representative Avi Berkowitz and others, many others, who have carried out their mandates with dedication and skill.
Ladies and gentlemen, today’s agreement is an important first step. And it is now incumbent on us to work urgently and actively to bring about the lasting peace and security our peoples deserve. A just, comprehensive and enduring two-state solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict will be the foundation, the bedrock of such peace. We have shown today that such a path is possible, even realistic. What was only dreamed of a few years ago is now achievable. And we can see before us a golden opportunity for peace, security and prosperity for our region. Let us, together and with our international partners, waste no time in seizing it. Thank you.
Great job.
[inaudible 00:35:37].
That’s a great job.
Thank you, thank you.
Beautiful.
Thank you.
Fellas, come on over here.
The President of the United States, the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and His Highness, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the United Arab Emirates will sign a treaty of peace, diplomatic relations and full normalization. They will each sign three copies, one in English, Hebrew, and Arabic. We kindly ask that all guests remain seated for the signing of the documents.
Where my name is to go?
Hi, Prime Minister, can you be helpful here and tell me where my name?
Right here.
Okay.
You do the same for me in Arabic.
I will.
So which one is mine?
Right here.
Right here. [inaudible 00:37:55]
That’ll be the easiest.
It’s easiest.
Yes.
[inaudible 00:38:53].
Now show the crowd.
26 years.
Should we flip them over? Or [crosstalk 00:03: 00]?
Yeah, turn them over [inaudible 00:03:00].
Will we stand now?
Yeah. Sure.
[inaudible 00:38:57] Two more.
[inaudible 00:39:29].
I just wanted to say, Prime Minister, thank you.
So glad [inaudible 00: 03:41].
Thank you.
Congratulations. Congratulations, sir. Congratulations.
Thank you, sir.
The President of the United States, the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and the Minister of the Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain will now sign the Declaration of Peace. They will each sign three copies, one in English, Hebrew, and Arabic. We kindly ask that all guests remain seated for the signing of the documents.
[inaudible 00:40:26].
[inaudible 00:40:30].
Pass down to your right. [inaudible 00:40:48]. Now, pass down to [inaudible 00:04:48].
Think we’re done.
[inaudible 00:40:29] sure.
Yes.
Yeah. You’re good?
Yes.
[inaudible 00:41:29].
Hold that up.
[inaudible 00:41:36].
The President of the United States, the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, His Highness, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the United Arab Emirates, and the Minister of the Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain will now sign the Abraham Accords. They will each sign four copies, one in English, one in Hebrew and two in Arabic.
This is easiest. You can decide.
[inaudible 00:42:46].
[inaudible 00:42:48].
Good.
Now, you do this.
[inaudible 00:43:09] this.
Now, you [inaudible 00:43:13].
Now they’re all done.
Okay, we’re good.
That’s great, [inaudible 00:43:36].
[inaudible 00:44:14].
[inaudible 00:43:50].
[inaudible 00:44:03].
Thank you, [inaudible 00:44:12]
Ladies and gentlemen, the 45th president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
We brought you a lot of car plants, Michigan. We brought you a lot of car plants. You know that, right?
Yeah.
Long time, it’s been a long time since you had all these plants being built, but we brought you a lot over the last three and a half years, and we’re going to bring you a lot more. That’s happening. Hello, Michigan and I’m thrilled to be in Freeland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. Fifty-four days from now, we’re going to win Michigan, and we’re going to win four more years in the White House.
[inaudible 00:07:47] I love you. I love you.
This is the most important election in the history of our country. Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring Michigan’s jobs, outsourcing-
Boo!
We shouldn’t be smiling about it, but we’ve changed it around. Outsourcing Michigan’s factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars and surrendering our children’s future to China and other far away lands. Biden supported every disastrous globalist sellout for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China, and DPP. You know that. Joe Biden surrendered your jobs to China and now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left wing mob and you’re seeing that every night.
Boo!
If Biden wins, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchist, arsonist and flag burners win.
Boo!
But I wouldn’t worry about it because he’s not winning. I don’t think he’s winning.
Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.
This is not the crowd of a person who comes in second place. You do know that. The same thing happened four years ago. It was election eve but by the time I got here, it was late. Some of you are in that audience at one o’clock in the morning now election day. We had 32,000 people show up and the reason I went is that I heard that crooked Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton and Barack Hussein Obama were traveling to Michigan because they heard they had problems. They were supposed to win Michigan, but they did such a lousy job that they had to come and get some votes. They came and I heard about it. They said, “Sir, could you do it?” I hopped in the plane. We landed at 12 o’clock in the evening. I started speaking at one o’clock in the morning now election day. 32,000 people. She had 500 people. I said, “Why are we going to lose Michigan?” And we didn’t. And we didn’t.
First time in a long time, but now we’re up in the polls. We just saw polls. We’re up in Michigan. I don’t know if that’s good or bad. I don’t know. I don’t know if that’s good or bad because in all those polls where we were down last time, we won. So maybe we’re better off being down a little bit. Hello, John James. I see you handsome guy. John James, get out and vote for John. I’m going to introduce you in a second John James. What a job you’ve done. I have to tell you, he took, I saw this group of people that were running, all nice people, three very rich people and one guy that was John James and I saw them all. Right? I saw them all and I said, “Wait.”
With the wonderful invention of TiVo, one of the greats, you can play it back. I said, “Who was that?” He said, “I don’t know, sir.” I said, “Play it back.” I said, “That man is going to be a star.” It was John James. That was in the Republican primary. After learning about him with his incredible career and helicopter, and he’s a great, and actually a great flyer I heard the other day, a great one, a really good one as opposed to those that aren’t so good, but his incredible background and education at West Point and all of the things he did. I said, “This guy” and I endorsed him and he went like a rocket ship. Frankly, if he had a little more support, he would have won the last time. This time, I hear you’re even, and maybe even ahead, and we’re going to win with John James. He’s a great guy, but I’m going to introduce him in a second.
I’m running for reelection to keep jobs in Michigan. We have got a lot of … Last year before the China plague came in, we have the China plague. Thank you China very much. Should have never let that happen. They should have never, ever let it happen. They stopped it from going into China, but they didn’t stop it from coming out here and coming into the US, in Europe and the rest of the world, 188 countries. But it is what it is and we’re not happy about it and we’re going to remember it. We’re going to remember it, but we had in Michigan and in the country, the greatest economy in the history of the world, there has never been an economy.
Now, we’re building it again and it’s being built fast. By the way, it’s turning out to be John, a super V. No more V. Now it’s starting out to be a super V, but to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, because if we win, America wins and that’s what it’s about. If we win, America wins.
Not only does Joe Biden want to eliminate your jobs, he wants to eliminate your borders. He’s promised to flood your state with refugees. You know that as well as I do. You see it all the time. From terrorist hotspots around the world, including Syria, Somalia, and Yemen, Biden’s pledged to have a 700% increase. He made this deal with crazy Bernie, a 700% increase in the flow of refugees. So, he wants to lift it up by 700%. This is in their manifesto.
He’s also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans, overwhelming your state with poorly vetted migrants from jihadist regions. Making matters worse, he would open the flood gates in the middle of a pandemic. By the way, the wall, it’s over 311 miles long right now doing very well. Doing very well. Make the mic louder, the mic louder.
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
Biden is waging war against the American middle class. I think most of you are not middle class. You’re upper class. You’re the elite. You know the way they talk about the elite, the elite, they’re really elite. I see them. They’re not elite. You’re the elite. The elite has decided. Boy, have we hurt the elite, haven’t we now? You’re the super elite.
The left wants to get rid of me so they can come after you. It’s very simple. Over the last three and a half years, we’ve secured America’s borders, blocked the entry of foreign terrorist, fixed our disastrous trade deals and we have fixed our trade deals good. They are good.
That’s true.
In fact, Biden was interviewed today on … There they are. CNN.
Boo!
No, he was just interviewed today. He was interviewed by Jake Tapper who I find to be a nice guy. I don’t think he likes me too much, but that’s okay. He was interviewed on CNN and they said, “Which is better, NAFTA or the USMCA?” He said, “No, no, the USMCA.” Tapper goes, “What?” Couldn’t believe it. He said USMCA. He made a mistake. From his perspective, he made a mistake because he doesn’t know what’s going on. Even though he’s right, he doesn’t know. There were a little surprised to hear that. They gave him a few chances.
Let’s ask that question again, but we brought back our manufacturing jobs. We rebuilt the awesome power of the US military. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Now, we are doing it again bigger and better than ever before. Before the end of the year, we will have a safe and effective vaccine and we will defeat the China virus. I have a feeling … By the way, I think the vaccine is going to come very soon, going to come very soon. With it or without it, we’re rounding the turn. You see what’s happening. You see the numbers are plunging. You see how good we’re doing relative to other countries and other parts of the world, but the fake news doesn’t like saying that. They don’t like telling you that.
Boo!
Next year, unless you have somebody that’s going to quadruple your taxes, raise your taxes, raise up all of those regulations that we cut, next year will be one of the greatest years of the history of our country. At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, and two agendas for the future. There’s never been a vision like this. You have sleepy Joe and you have Trump. Sleepy Joe, he’s a beauty. He’s a beauty. He’s a beauty.
I watched the Democrat debates, right? I watched them up there and he was so bad. I said, “There’s no way he makes it.” It’s sad, isn’t it? The first lady actually came in and one time she watched it and she goes, and she’s a nice person. She meant this really, me, I view it differently. But she looked at, she watched the debate and she watched Joe and she said, “Darling, it’s so sad.” This was early on. This is the guy I’m running against. It’s so sad. Darling, it’s so sad. But we got them.
Joe Biden has put forward the most extreme platform and it’s not him. He doesn’t know what platform. He doesn’t. It’s your radical left people. It’s AOC plus three. It’s all these people. Bernie. It’s Bernie. It’s Kamala, the most liberal person in the US Senate.
I tell it all the time. She started off her poll numbers at 15, 14, 12, 12. Then she went back up to 12 and a half. Then there was a big plunge right down to the bottom and then she dropped out. She dropped out, but there’s never been anything like this. No major party has ever had a candidate that’s so extreme in his views. Again, he took the manifesto drawn up by Bernie and the super lips and that’s what he’s going by, including a massive increase in your taxes and a total assault on your second amendment.
On November 3rd, Michigan, you better vote for me. I got you so many damn car plants.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
I’ll tell you what, I’ll be so angry at you. I got you a lot of plants. Is that right? I mean, have you seen how we’re doing here? All the plants that have been built, are being built and what about the plants that are being expanded? They don’t want to give you credit for that. They just expanded. I went to Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, “Prime Minister, you have to start doing something.” He’s a great guy. He’ll be retiring soon. He’s a great guy, the prime minister of Japan, Abe. I say, “Shinzō, Shinzō, you have to do me a favor. You’ve got to send car plants over here. You’re sending all those cars. We stupidly don’t-
You’re sending all those cars. We stupidly don’t charge you tariffs on those cars that pour into our country. I said, “Shinzo, you got to give us plants.” “No, no, no, I can’t do that. That is up to the free enterprise system of Japan.” I say, “Shinzo, you’re a powerful man. You can do it.” “Oh, I can’t do it.” The next day they announced five car companies are coming to Michigan. Right? [inaudible 00:22:28]. Now they’ve been building it for a number of years, but you hadn’t had a plan built in like 42 years. They were the old plants. And it’s been amazing what’s happened in Michigan. But honestly, it’s been amazing what’s happened in Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida and New Hampshire and so many other places. Our country is doing great. We had to take a pause to get rid of the China virus, and we got rid … We’re coming around. We’re coming around that turn. I’m telling you, you watch, next year, better than last year. It’s going to be better than last year.
Michigan will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, or whether we’ll allow Sleepy Joe to impose $4 trillion in tax hikes, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, shut down the economy, and tell your governor to open up your state. It’s all Democrat governors. And I think they do it for political reasons because there’ll be less activity. You’d be doing even better if you had a governor that knew what the hell she was doing. You got to open it up the state.
And also, you have to have a governor because right now Michigan’s lagging. Great football, great coach, great team. We want a governor, John James, that’s going to let Michigan play Big Ten football this year. You’ve been seeing a lot of the other schools want to open Big Ten at my suggestion. How about Sleepy Joe? He said, “Donald Trump is against football.” No, no, no. I’m the one that says open it up, let’s play football. These people practice disinformation like nobody has ever practiced it. They’re liars. I’ll tell you, they lie.
But we have a good chance. You have a very good commissioner, and the commissioner is working hard, and hopefully, very soon they’ll say you’re going to play football. And I hope they’re not leaving Michigan out because it’s never the same if they do. But you have Maryland, where they have a problem in terms of playing. And the governors have a lot of power over that. They have a lot of power, a lot of say. So let’s play Big Ten football, right?
They want to shut down auto production, delay the vaccine. They want to destroy your suburbs. Look at what I’ve done for your suburbs. You know what I’ve done. You know what I’ve done. Does anybody want to have somebody from Antifa as a member and as a resident of your suburb? I don’t think so too much. Say, “Darling, who moved in next door?” “Oh, it’s a resident of Antifa.” “No, thank you. Let’s get out of here. Let’s get the hell out of here, darling. Let’s leave our suburbs. I wish Trump were president. He wouldn’t have allowed that to happen.” And that’s exactly right, I won’t allow it to happen.
The suburbs are the American dream, and I will tell you, I have protected your suburbs. I got rid of a regulation that played with your zoning and played with other things, where they force projects into the suburbs of our great country. And I got rid of it. They said, “Sir, we can amend it and make it less crazy.” I said, “No, I don’t want to amend it. I don’t want to do that. I want to get rid of it.” “Well, sir, why don’t we just do a simple amendment? It would be” … I said, “I want to get rid of it. End it.” And we ended it. We ended it.
I think the people living in the suburbs … which I know very well. I watched Westchester in New York where they were doing things that should never have been done, and it’s not going to happen to our suburbs. They want to erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in our schools. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. For the last four years, they’ve tried everything to stop us, and they are only getting more desperate by the day.
Can you imagine if on September 3rd, they say, “Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has been declared the winner. Donald Trump has been declared” … At first, they’ll go crazy. And then they’ll say, “Okay, it’s time now to be reasonable.” They will have had it. They will have had it. We were coming together as a nation. Very interesting. Before the plague came in from China, we will coming together. It was success. Somebody said, “What’s going to bring you together?” And it was. We were coming together. I was starting to get calls from Democrats that … Frankly, we didn’t speak much. And I was starting to get calls, and then all of a sudden we saw the plague pour in, and we saw what was happening, and it really stopped things.
But success was getting very, very close to bringing us all together. And then we had to say, “Let’s take a time out. We got to fix this mess.” And we did, and now we’re coming back strong, but success brings us together, and it was happening, and then we got that terrible situation happened, and we’ll never forget it.
Biden and his party tried to lock law-abiding Americans into their homes while they encourage rioters and vandals rampaging through, in all cases, Democrat-run cities. Republican-run cities are doing very well. I hope you know that. And I hope you know, like in Minneapolis, we were asked to come in, we went in, we took care of that problem in about, what, 30 minutes? Unfortunately, they let almost two weeks go by. And if you look at what we just did in Wisconsin, which was so amazing, three days, and we went in. And by the way, the US Marshals went in to get the killer, and that was the end of that. They got the killer, they got the killer. You know what I’m talking about.
And we were going to go into Seattle. The next day, we’re all set, all lined up, looking forward to it. We just said, “We’re doing it.” I mean, they actually took over a part of the city, and the mayor said, “This is going to be a summer of love,” right? Where do these people come from? But we were all set to go in there, heard we were going in, we informed them we’re going in, and they sent their police to do it, and we never even had to go in. But we can solve those problems in a matter of literally minutes.
We love you. We love you.
Thank you.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Don’t say that, I’ll start to cry, and that wouldn’t be good for my image. You don’t want to see me cry. I’ll start to cry. One of the fake news broadcasters, because this happened the other day, we had a tremendous crowd like this. I mean, we had a tremendous crowd in North Carolina. They started chanting, “We love you. We love you. We love you.” And it’s incredible, they said with all the years that they’ve been covering presidential elections, they’ve never heard that chant that, “We love you.” No, it’s very nice. No, they’ve never heard it. True.
We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you. We love you.
Now they’ll say, “He misrepresented. 18 years ago, there was a rally held by somebody, and we heard the words from two people that, ‘We love you, sir.'” Now this is what we’re dealing with. And by the way, I look out, there’s a lot of people that … Look at this. There’s people back there that can’t even get in. Thank you, Michigan. Thank you. It’s really nice to be with you. As president, I will always support the heroes of law enforcement. I was very honored to receive the endorsement of the Police Officers Association of Michigan. Where are they? Where are they? They’re here someplace. Where are they? Thank you, fellows. That’s really nice. I’ll tell you. That’s an honor. I have to be honest. I got it from Florida, Texas, Ohio, North Carolina, South … But Michigan is Michigan. Thank you.
I don’t think there’s any law enforcement officer that is against us. What is our poll number? 99. I know they had 365,000 at one group, and they got a unanimous vote. I said, “That’s pretty good”. How can you go the other way? You people are fantastic, and we love you. Thank you. That’s great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Biden says he wants to protect Black lives, but his radical platform will cut short the lives of thousands of young African American citizens. Thousands. The murder rate in Democrat-run cities like Chicago, Baltimore, New York, so many others is higher than in Afghanistan, yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide. You will have crime like you’ve never seen before. You’ll have crime like you’ve never seen.
Last week, Joe Biden proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, criminals, and violent extremists without charge. Biden’s plan … And every time I say Biden’s plan, it’s not his plan, it’s the people that tell them what they’re going to do, so please understand. I just don’t want to say that every time I mention his name. So it should say, “The people that control Biden’s plan” is to appease domestic terrorists. My plan is to arrest them, to lock them up. If Joe Biden is elected, far left lunatics won’t just be running failed Democrat city, they’ll be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, and the United States Supreme Court, and we can’t let that happen. No city, town, or suburb will be safe. On November 3rd, your vote will save America. Remember, it’s the most important election we’ve ever had.
I’m joined tonight by some great warriors that have really helped me a lot in Washington with the fake impeachment, the impeachment hoax, the Russia, Russia, Russia hoax. Somebody said Russia’s coming up again. Adam Schiff said, “We’d like to find out about” … I said, “What about China? What about other countries?” It’s always Russia. Russia, Russia. They’re at it again. I want to just thank these guys because these were real warriors for all of us. They love your state, and they love our country. Congressman Jack Bergman. Great job, Jack. John Moolenaar. Thank you, John. Great. Great going, John. He’s a tough cookie. And Tim Walberg. Tim, thank you. Great job. What great people.
And I talked about him a little while before, I could talk about him all night. He’s a star. He’s going to be a future star. We have a very much different party than we had four years ago. We’re now the party of the workers. We’re the party of a lot of different things now, but we weren’t really considered the party of the workers. Certainly not anymore. Remember this, we’re the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people forget that. Honestly. Remember when they used to say, “he doesn’t act presidential”? And I used to say, “It’s so easy to be presidential.” I’d only have about 10 or 15 people here. You’d be bored. But remember I used to do that? But I’d always say, “I can be more presidential than any president in our history, except for the possibility of Abraham Lincoln when he wears his hat.” Tough to beat. That’s tough to beat, John James.
But seriously, if you want to be well-represented … Your current Senator, I don’t even know this guy. I don’t even know this guy. Nobody does. They don’t know who he is. They don’t even know. He comes into the office, I say, “Who is that guy?” I know every Senator. Democrat, Republican. I don’t know this guy. I know your other Senator. I can tell by her hair. She’s got interesting hair. But that was John’s first crack. He learned a lot. And frankly, and I mean this, if he had more support from the Republican Party, he would’ve won that race. He would’ve.
But this guy Peters, right? Peters. I say, “Who’s Peters?” Nobody knows him. He doesn’t do anything. I mean, look, we’re going to end this, but I have to tell you, John James can be so great. He loves our country. He’s been educated at the highest level. He was always the top at everything he’s ever done. And this is what he has.
And I’ll be honest with you, John. I think I can tell this story. John and I were thinking about John. I was thinking about John more than myself because I know talent. And I said, “John, you can run for a certain House seat, right? And you’re guaranteed to win. You can run for another House seat. It’ll be a tough race, but you’re going to win. Or you can have a tough race against somebody that nobody ever heard of. It’s like a habit that they press that particular trigger, but that’s a tough race. So you can be an absolute Congressman, or you can take a shot at this one.” He said, “Sir, I can do more in the Senate than I can do in the House.” And that was his decision. Right? Took a lot of guts.
So John, I’m with you. You have my total and complete endorsement. You have everything I can do. Everything I can do, we will do for you. And I really believe you’re going to make it. You’re running against somebody that is just ridiculous, folks. It’s ridiculous. Don’t do it.
Also with us are some other great candidates and people that are going to do a tremendous job, helping our Congressman. Paul Junge. Where’s Paul Junge? Paul, thank you. Good luck. I heard you’re doing well, Paul. Paul Junge. Lisa McClain. Lisa? Great job. It’s going well. And Eric Essahki. Thank you, Eric. Good luck. Good luck. We’re going to be out here helping you, too. We’re going to be out here. I hope John doesn’t even need help, but we’re going to help John, too. We’re going to help all of you. All right? We’re going to be doing it. Thank you.
Also with you is RNC Chairwoman. She was the head of the whole state, and she kept calling me back, back. “Sir, one more speech, you’re going to win Michigan.” Hadn’t been won in decades. “One more speech, sir, you’re going to win Michigan.” I said, “All right. Ron, I’m coming in one more time, but that’s it.” I said, “That woman is the most aggressive person I’ve ever met.” She said, “I’m telling you, sir, one more speech.” I said, “All right, I’ll do it one more time, but that’s it.” About a day after I got back, I said, “I just got back from Michigan. It was wonderful.” I get a call from Ronna McDaniel, and she goes, “Sir, could you come in tomorrow for another speech?”
Well, whatever happens, she is the one that got me here at midnight on … She is. So when it came time to picking the head of the RNC, as president, you have a couple of things to say about it, right? I said, “Who’s that woman that kept getting me back to Michigan? Boy oh boy, she’ll be great.” Ronna McDaniel.
And somebody’s doing a fantastic job and tells us we’re really pretty far ahead. Maybe way ahead. They had a poll. I think it was a Gallup poll. They said 62% of the people are lying about their poll. Now, they’re only lying having to do with my … And I don’t know if I’m supposed to be insulted by that or not, but we’ll take it. But we could have a very big win. And look, no president has done for Michigan what President Trump has done for Michigan. And you’re going to remember that. And I’m going to remember Michigan.
Michigan GOP Chair Laura Cox. Great. Thank you. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, Laura.
We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. 47 years of bad votes. After the last administration nearly killed the US auto industry, I saved the US auto industry. Joe Biden supported the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for American auto jobs. I withdrew from the TPP my first week in office. That was so easy. That was so easy. You wouldn’t have been making cars. You would’ve been buying cars from foreign lands. We have enough of that.
Biden supported the horrendous South Korea deal that would’ve wiped out US production of the pickup truck, which is the most … The pickup truck is the most profitable thing the auto industry makes. You know why? We have something called the Chicken Tax. Does anyone know what I’m talking about? The Chicken Tax. It’s a tariff of 25%, and it keeps other countries out of here, and it expired, and South Korea didn’t want to do it, but they did it. We got it right back, and we put it on for a long time, and now you’re making … But remember this, go check it out. The Chicken Tax. I’ll tell you why someday at another meeting why they call it that. Maybe you don’t want to know about it.
But we’re keeping those small trucks, and we’re keeping our whole industry good. And we’re expanding our autos now, our cars, and we’re doing a great job of it, and I want to thank everybody. Doing a great job.
And by the way, many other things in Michigan. Biden supported the outrageous fuel economy standards that have hammered the auto industry, and I reversed that rule. I actually reversed it, and it helped millions of families be able to afford a car. The United States lost 500 auto and auto parts factories under the Obama-Biden disaster. Before the virus, my administration added over 200 new auto and auto parts plants. How about 200? I didn’t know that. 200. 200. I thought it was a little less than that. Wait, I want to see that again. 200. It’s …
… than that. Wait, I want to see that again, 200. It says 200. Do you believable it? That’s a lot.
You know, I have a choice between teleprompter and freelance. I hate to say, the freelance is always a hell of a lot better, but …
If you remember, and you remember well, I actually got elected because of freelance. We didn’t have teleprompters. There were no teleprompters. But think of that, 200, we’re talking about 200 plants. I thought it was a much lower number. I thought you should put me in an office based on a much lower number. At 200, you have no choice.
Yesterday, Biden was in Michigan. He said, “I better get out of the basement.” This guy is starting to do very well lying about his lifetime of cold hearted globalist betrayals. Biden championed NAFTA, perhaps the worst trade deal in the history of our country. He continued to embrace and promote NAFTA for decades. I told you, he just said it was not as good as the deal I made. I can’t believe, oh they’re giving him hell tonight. They’re giving him hell. What did you say that for? Boy oh boy. Yeah, hiding. ‘Joe Hiden.’ Look, this doesn’t sound nice. I’ll say it, and they’ll criticize for it, you watch. But I have the distinct pleasure of running against the worst presidential candidate in the history of presidential politics. I really believe that. I do. Can you imagine if I lost to him? I’d have to say I lost to the worst candidate ever put up. Don’t do that to me, Michigan. Don’t do that.
Biden supported China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which, by the way, was a disaster. China was flatlining for years and years and decades and it got into this World Trade Organization with all sorts of advantages. Just a terrible, terrible situation took place. That’s when China became a big, powerful economic power.
But, if you look at the numbers just before the plague, now, the numbers are different, we were going up, up, up, we were beating them like a drum. They weren’t even close. We were gaining, gaining, gaining. We were number one by far. You know, for years I’ve heard that in 2019, China was going to surpass us. Well, in 2019, we gained a lot on them. We were doing great. We were doing great and we’ll be doing even better next year, you watch.
Yesterday it was revealed that a fund partly owned by Joe Biden’s son, where’s Hunter? See his first name, I now name … His first name is where. Where’s Hunter? He must be a brilliant guy because with no experience he’s taken more money from more countries. He had no job and then he became rich. But where’s Hunter who facilitated the sale of a Michigan automotive company to a leading Chinese military defense contractor? Does anyone know that China’s military got yet another piece of American manufacturing, Mike and the Biden family made a lot of money on it. It was a lot of money.
What about Ukraine? He got $183,000 a month, $3 million upfront and he had no experience with energy, working for an energy company, by the way. What’s your experience, Hunter? What’s your experience with energy? “I don’t have any.” “Okay. We’ll pay you 183,000 a month and I will give you an upfront payment, Hunter, of $3 million. Will that be satisfactory?” He goes, “Yes. I’ll take it.”
Would anybody here not take that deal? Anybody? Please raise your head. This is one guy, right, you must be a pretty rich guy. If Biden’s elected, China will own America. Washington vultures like Biden and others ripped apart entire towns all across your state. Michigan lost half of all manufacturing jobs after the trade deals that Biden supported.
By the way, I don’t know if anybody … But does anybody remember like 12 years ago? Long before I thought about running for president, when I enjoyed my life, I had the greatest life. “Where would we like to go? Let’s go to Monte-Carlo this weekend. Let’s go.” No, I had a great life, but I was honored. I was doing very well. I was honored in Michigan. Does anybody know that? I was given man of the year award by somebody?
I came in and I spent like 45 minutes talking about how you’ve been ripped off, how all your auto companies are leaving and going to Mexico and, by the way, to Canada too. But how they’re all leaving and going to Mexico and Canada. I spent the whole time talking about it. At the end I felt embarrassed, I said, “I hope I haven’t insulted the state too much, but why do you let this happen?” I stopped it. I stopped.
It won’t be happening. It won’t be happening. It’s not going to happen anymore. Biden took a sledgehammer to your state earlier this year, I kept my promise to Michigan workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare that everybody said was impossible to end, and when we signed that brand new US- Mexico-Canada agreement into law.
The USMCA includes powerful wage protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan. Now they have a tremendous disincentive to leave Michigan, fire all of our workers, go to Mexico or Canada, make the car or the product, send it in here without tariffs. We end up with closed factories, no job and no taxes. That’s not happening anymore. That’s not happening anymore.
But do you remember how bad it was just before I took office? It was like an avalanche of companies leaving our country. I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s rampant theft of Michigan jobs. Biden has vowed to remove these tariffs and allow China to resume its pillaging. Just so you know, China’s paying us tens of billions of dollars a month. Before me, China never paid anything. They didn’t pay us 25 cents. You know what I did with some of that money? I gave it to our farmers. I don’t know if we have a lot, do we have farmers here? We have farmers. Raise your hands farmers. That’s not bad
No, I gave $28 billion to our farmers because they were targeted by China. They were targeted. They said, “You know …” and that’s what they did in the past to other presidents. They said, “If you do this, we’re going to stop doing business with your farmers and you’re not going to be able to get any votes and you’re going to lose the Midwest and all of that.” I said, “You know what? I do, whatever you want.”
Then I went to Sonny Perdue, Secretary Of Agriculture, a great guy, I said, Sonny, “How much are they being targeted for?” “Sir, $12 billion the first year, two years, three years ago, and then 16 billion, a total of 28 billion.” I said, “That’s okay. We’re putting tariffs on everything they send into our country, 25%.” Was going to raise it to 50%. Also, 10% at 12%, all different tariffs. We took in billions and billions, and I said, “You know what we’re going to do? We’re going to take, of that, the 12 and the 16, $28 billion and we’re going to give it to our farmers who were targeted,” and our farmers are doing great. That’s what we did. Do you think Joe Biden would do that? He wouldn’t have a clue. Hillary wouldn’t have had a clue. Crazy Bernie wouldn’t have, nobody would add a clue on that one. By the way, we had tens of billions of dollars left over. You know what I did with that? We gave it to the US Treasury, right smack into the heart of the US Treasury.
And we’re still getting those big tariffs. Even though we made a trade deal with China. I said, “No, you got to leave the tariffs on.” A lot of people didn’t know it. Schumer went, “Well, I don’t like to do …” First of all, he didn’t like tariffs, and then all of a sudden he loves it. But when I made the deal with China, I left the tariffs on 25% and some different amounts. When I left tariffs largely on and nobody could believe it.
I said to Schumer, “What do you think of the deal?” “I don’t like it because you got rid of the tariffs.” I said, “No, we left the tariffs on.” This is what it is. No matter how you do it, no matter how good the deal, they’ll say, “It’s no good,” because they don’t love the country. They don’t love the country. Remember that. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the USA. That’s a nice plane. Somebody said to me, “Your plane’s just as nice as that.” I said, “No, it’s not. That’s Air Force One. That’s the nicest.” Always, that’s the nicest.
I also authorize millions of dollars to save Michigan Soo Locks, and forget all the problems they had. For years and years, they fought over the money to do it. We got $300 million to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, and we have done a job on the Soo Locks. They were rotting you. Weren’t going to have anything come through the Soo Locks. It’s all done. That deal is all done. It’s all done. Right? Thank you. Thank you. Where are my guys there? Good job. Right. Even though you’re law enforcement, that’s a good job, right?
Two months ago, I also issued a major disaster declaration in response to the catastrophic flooding caused by the failure of the Edenville dam. Where are the people from Edenville? Yeah, good. No, that was a terrible thing and they’re working very hard right now. We’re providing more than $43 million in federal funds to help homeowners, businesses and communities in central Michigan to recover from that catastrophe.
And you know, it’s a privately owned dam. I think we’re going to have to sue the ass off of the company that has it, I don’t know. No, I don’t know why we’re doing it. I’ll tell you why we’re doing it, our great Congressman. Thank you, Congressman. Great job. Thank you. He called up. He said, “Sir, we have to do it. It’s a private dam.” I said, “Well, if it’s a private dam, don’t they have to do it?” Say, “It will never happen.” Right? But we’ll end up getting some of that back, I think. Great, great representative you have. I want to tell you, [inaudible 00:56:47]. Thank you.
Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration. Under my administration, we’ve achieved the most secure border in American history. We’ve ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we’ve deported over 20,000 vicious gang members and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens. As I said, we’ve already built over 310 miles of border wall. It’s all going to be finished very quickly. We’re averaging about 10 new, brand new, beautiful miles every single week. It’ll be finished very short.
We’ve invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. All made in the USA, by the way. All made in the USA. You know, with the fake news today, I said, “And we have systems and missiles and rockets and military and tech. We have systems that you’ve never even seen before. President Xi has nothing like it. Putin has nothing like it. Nobody has anything like what we have.” They said, “Is he giving away military information?” No, I’m saying, “We have the greatest weapons in the world.” That’s what I’m saying. They said, “He may be giving away classified information.” You don’t have to worry about it. These people are sick. Never speak well about our technology because you’re giving away classified information. Now, I just want to let people know, we have the greatest systems, the greatest equipment and the greatest people anywhere in the world. There’s nobody like the US military. We have the most powerful military in the world. When I took it over, it was depleted. It was in trouble and was exhausted from these ridiculous, endless wars that lasts 19 and 20 years, and you know, those soldiers are starting to come home very big. You know that right?
They’re all coming home and we launched the first new branch of the US Armed Forces in nearly 75 years since the Air Force, we launched the Space Force, very, very, [inaudible 00:59:32]. We passed the MISSION Act, we call it VA Choice and VA Accountability. We hold people accountable if they don’t treat our vets good, you’re fired. Get out. You’re fine.
We did more in 47 months than sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years. That’s true. We did more. That sort of has a nice ring to it. Right? Think of it. We did more and it’s true. Just take a look, Space Force, by itself, that would be a major achievement, and with us, we did so many things, so many things. But we did more in 47 months than he did in 47 years. It’s true. It’s true.
A lot of what I did is destroy some of the horrible things that they did, including regulations all over the place. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal. We paid $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. We ought to speak to law enforcement about that. How do we send 1.8 billion in cash? In cash? You guys ought to take a look at that please.
I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Every president said they were going to do that and none of them did it, for decades and decades, they all said. I tell this story, it was a hard thing to get done. It was easy to talk about in the campaign, “We’re going to open up the embassy in Jerusalem. We’re going to make it. It becomes automatically the capital of Israel.” Everybody said it for very, very many decades, for decades, many presidents.
But I realize now why it was an effort because as soon as I got in, I was lobbied by everybody, “Please don’t do it. Don’t do it. Don’t make the capital of Israel Jerusalem. Don’t move your embassy.” So went on and on. Then I said, “Let’s do it anyway.” It’s true. And the word got out. The word got out that I was going to do it, and I was called by every king and every queen and every prime minister and every … Everybody was calling me, “Please sir, don’t do it. Please.”
So I did what we sometimes will do in business, I told them … When a king calls, when somebody calls, an Emir, when somebody calls, tell them, “I’ll call them back in a few days. I’m sorry, sir. He won’t be able to speak right now, he’ll call you back on Wednesday. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.” On Tuesday, I announced that I’m doing it. Then I got on the phone with 18 different companies. I go, “Hey, how you doing? You called, I’m just returning your call.” “Oh, it’s too late, sir. We called about Israel. It’s too late.” I said, “Gee, I’m sorry. I wish you got to me a little bit sooner.” I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieved the first breakthrough in Middle East peace in decades. And by the way, on Wednesday, I believe of next week, Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and as you know, the country, a very powerful, very respected country with a great leader, the UAE, is coming to the White House and we’re going to sign an agreement that hasn’t been signed in many decades. It’s peace and its recognition of Israel and all of the things, nobody thought it could be done.
It’s an amazing thing. I don’t say this out of ego, but I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Now, I have to tell you, that’s sort of a big thing and the networks and most of the news didn’t cover it. Could you imagine? When Obama came to office, they said, “We’re going to give him the Nobel Peace Prize.” He actually said, “What did I do? I didn’t do anything.” He didn’t do anything for eight years, frankly. But he said, “What did I do?” They gave it to them in a matter of weeks, right? Weeks.
With us, we’ve done so much. We have done so much on so many different fronts. Remember North Korea? Remember? They were going to be at war with North Korea. Where’s the war? Where’s the war? Where’s the war? And we have a good relationship with Kim Jong-un. Who knows what happens? All I know is, we’re not in war and that’s okay. They said, “But he gave away so much.”
I said, “I gave away nothing.” “No, he gave away so much.” When I said, “What did they give away?” You know what they said? “Uh, we don’t know.” I said, “Here’s what I gave away, I gave away nothing.” They said, “Oh, but you agreed to meet.” Oh, I see. I agreed to meet. So now they’re saying, “I agreed to meet, it was such a big deal.”
Instead of being in a war, I think agreeing to meet is okay, right? And we did. He’s a different kind of a guy and he’s a smart guy, a very smart guy. We get along. Getting along with foreign powers is not a bad thing. We’re trying to teach that to the media and these idiots that ran our government for so many years. These fools. These fools. You know, you got nuclear weapons, you got big armies, big navies, “He gets along with Putin. That’s a terrible thing.” No, it’s a good thing. If I get along, that’s good. He likes me. I like him. Not so bad. “He gets along with Kim Jong-un.”
… Not so bad. He gets along with Kim Jong-Un. That’s a terrible thing. No, it’s a good thing. I’m trying to convince him. It’s okay. It’s okay not to go to war. It’s really okay. He gets along with President Xi, he gets along with Prime Minister Abe. He gets along with a lot of people, and it’s okay. That’s a good thing. It’s really hard. These stupid people that have been running this operation for 30, 40 years, and they come out against me, and all they did was stick us in these endless wars. We’re fighting for sand and blood. Sand and blood. Syria, what do you get out of it? You get sand, you get blood, you get injuries, you get death. These people don’t know what the hell they’re doing and it’s one of the reasons I got elected, I can tell you that. We don’t like his foreign policy. And this is said by one of the guy’s that got us into the war in Iraq, got us into the Middle East. So, it’s … We’re doing a great job. We’re doing a great job for you. We’re doing a great job for Michigan. Just to finish in the Middle East, we killed the founder and leader of Isis, Al-Baghdadi. And by the way, we’re pulling back and we’re doing everything so beautifully. If we do get into war, we win the war. We don’t fight for nothing. We fought for nothing. We don’t ever want to have war but if there is a war, nobody’s going to even come close to being able to beat us. And we won’t be depleted from fighting in all these ridiculous locations all over the globe. You people know that a lot better than the idiots in Washington that has represented us for 35 years.
We took out the world’s number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American troops, Qasem Soleimani is dead. We kept America out of new wars and we’re bringing our troops back home, and they’re coming home very rapidly. You see that. Sleepy Joe Biden voted for the Iraq War. He supported the Defense Sequester that gutted our military, destroyed our military, set us back so many years. I got rid of it immediately. He opposed the mission to take out Osama Bin Laden. He was against it. Everything he did, he was wrong on as said by Gates, you know? Secretary of Defense, Secretary of everything. He was sort of like … He had more jobs than any human being I’ve ever seen. But he said, “Everything, everything that Biden was for was wrong.” He opposed killing Soleimani. He oversaw the rise of Isis. He was unable to do anything with Isis.
I had the leader of a very important country in my office recently, and he said, and I’ll probably refer the press, they’ll say, “Who is it?” He said, “Thank you, sir. You were the one that got rid of Isis.” I said, “I was the one? You’re actually giving me credit?” He said, “Absolutely. When you took over, Isis in Iraq and Isis in Syria was all over. It was growing at a level like we’ve never seen. You came in, and you absolutely wiped it out.” Happens to be … The man that said that happens to be the leader of Iraq, and he was very nice. He was very generous [inaudible 01:09:54] as he came to the White House two weeks ago. And we cheered as we looked at all of the success that we’ve had but he really oversaw the rise of China as a positive development. Remember, he said, “No, it’s a positive development for America and for the world.”
He’s been in Washington for 47 years now. He’s all of a sudden going to change? He’s going to change? He’s not going to change. Don’t forget, he was in Washington in his primetime, which was never considered great, and now it’s no longer primetime. When I banned travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic. If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died from the China plague. Biden was willing to sacrifice American lives on the altar of open borders. And now Joe Biden is once again hurting innocent people with his dangerous anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, putting millions of lives around the world at risk. And the only reason he’s doing that is he knows we’re right next to having a vaccine. So, he wants to belittle the vaccine because he doesn’t want us to get credit.
But again, it’s not him, it’s the people surrounding him. When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. Recently, I visited the workers at Ford’s historic [inaudible 01:11:27] plant, who converted their factory to produce tens of thousands of ventilators, after we invoked the Defense Production Act, and they’ve done a fantastic job. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator any time in our whole country. They needed a ventilator, we had nothing. We were left, bare cupboards. I always say the cupboards were bare. We’re delivering lifesaving therapies, and have achieved among the lowest case fatality rates anywhere of any country in the world.
Europe’s excess mortality rate is 24% higher than the rate in the United States. You don’t hear that from the fake news. Hey, America will prevail over the China virus, as Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” That’s it. We’re doing very well. As the British government advised the British people in the face of World War II, “Keep calm and carry on.” That’s what I did. This whack job that wrote the book, he said, “Well, Trump knew a little bit.” They wanted me to come out and scream, “People are dying, we’re dying.” No, no, we did it just the right way. We have to be calm. We don’t want to be crazed lunatics. We have to lead.
When Hitler was bombing, I don’t know if you know this, when Hitler was bombing London, Churchill, great leader, would oftentimes go to a roof in London and speak, and he always spoke with calmness. He said, “We have to show calmness.” No, we did it the right way and we’ve done a job like nobody. All of those great generals, all of those great admirals, our great vice president, Mike Pence, they did a fantastic job. Our doctors, and they don’t get any credit because they want to discredit us as much as possible because they want it to carry over to November 3rd, but we’ve done a fantastic job. I think we’ve probably done the best job of any country, certainly of any major country anywhere in the world on the pandemic.
Through our historic relief programs, we’ve saved more than 1.6 million Michigan jobs, and over 128,000 Michigan businesses. Michigan has already gained and regained more than half of the jobs that it lost, and if your state was ever allowed to safely reopen by your governor who doesn’t have a clue. She’s like Joe. You would have regained far more than that. Open up your state, Madam Governor, open up your state. Let’s go. Just like crazy Nancy Pelosi, your governor is a liberal hypocrite who lives by a different set of rules. Her husband was caught trying to put his boat in the water on Memorial Day weekend while she was ordering the people of Michigan to stay in their homes, and forcing businesses into bankruptcy left and right.
The Biden agenda would collapse our economy and destroy this great opportunity that we’re having right now. He would impose job destroying regulations that would demolish the auto industry. You know, on regulations, it took, in many cases, 18, 19, 20 years to get a roadway or a highway approved. We have it down now to two years. We’re trying to get it down to one year, and it may get disapproved for environmental or safety reasons, but we’re going to know about it very fast. No more 20 year approvals or disapprovals.
He wants to force you to provide free government healthcare to illegal aliens. He will destroy your social security. He will destroy your protections for pre-existing conditions, and we will save social security. Remember they said last time? “Oh, Trump is going to destroy social security.” Well, it’s now four years, we haven’t touched it. We’ve protected it, and that’s going to remain that way. Biden opposes school choice and has stated that if he’s elected, charter schools, so important, are gone. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. A vote for republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans, instead of letting Washington change us, despite all that we have been through, we are changing Washington.
And in conclusion, although I hate, I really do, I hate to conclude, I hate to conclude because I love being with you, I do. I do. So, in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We’ve been doing it [inaudible 01:17:41]. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, and right here in Michigan. We will enact fair trade deals that create American jobs and grow American wages. We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring incomes and record prosperity, and that’s already happening.
We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities, and we will ban sanctuary cities. We will appoint prosecutors, judges and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda. We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. And you’re lucky I’m here because you’re Second Amendment would be gone if I wasn’t. And they didn’t touch it.
We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep out people, keep them out of these horrible, horrible situations where they hurt our country, they hurt the people of our country, and we’re also going to be staying out of the endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries that you’ve never even heard of. We will build the most powerful missile and cyber defense. We’ve already got it, pretty much. And we will maintain peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest thing that nobody even knows about and it’s all signed and it goes into effect on January 1st. You better make sure I win. Can you imagine? This is going to be the biggest thing and nobody understands what it is. You’ll figure it out. Price transparency. Did they fight me on that one. January 1st. And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs at a level like you’ve never seen before. I’ve already signed it. Favored Nations. The drug companies are not happy, I will tell you.
Just, all you have to do is take a look at all the ads they’re running against me. Favored Nations, where we pay whatever the lowest is in the world, we pay that number. We will protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect our patients. We will always our people. We will your pre-existing conditions, as I said. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will restore patriotic education, you know what I mean by that, and we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
And I don’t know if you saw it, but during the Democrat National Convention and Caucus, they took twice, I thought I was sort of, maybe they made a mistake, you saw that, they took the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance twice. And then they said, “Oh, well maybe it was a mistake.” It wasn’t a mistake. That’s where they’re coming from. Don’t be foolish. That’s where they’re coming from and there’s nothing that Sleepy Joe Biden can do about it. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for Michigan.
So, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and your coworkers, and get out and vote. So important. From Grand Rapids to Saginaw, from Kalamazoo to Mackinac, and from Flint to right here in Freeland, we stand on the shoulders of generations of Michigan patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg revolutionized entire industries. Michigan, well, you know this one, right? Michigan gave us Motown, right? That’s right. That’s right, Motown. We love Motown. Michigan gave us Motown, gave us Motown, gave us the Mustang and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest. This is the state where tough, strong and determined workers made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater and greater every single day.
Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we will be taking back our country, we’ll be taking it back from people that don’t love our country and that take back is almost complete. We have to win on November 3rd. We’re returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we are going to keep on winning. Vote for John James. John James. We need John James.
We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God, and together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Michigan. We love you, Michigan. Thank you. Thank you.
Well, thank you very much and I’m thrilled to be back at the historic Jupiter Inlet, I know it very well. Don’t live very far away as you know. The lighthouse, it’s, my home state is called the state of Florida and it’s a great state. Hello Ed. Sit down. Do you have seats? Yeah, you do sit down everybody. The sunshine state is truly one of the most beautiful places on earth. I love it. And together we will preserve its breathtaking natural splendor for generations to come. We’re here today to celebrate our incredible record of natural conservation and environmental protection. Over the last four years I’ve been working with your both governors, your last governors, your current governor is fantastic by the way and we’ve been working very, very hard. We’ve been working very hard together to make sure everything is perfect and to recommit ourselves to preserving the awesome majesty of God’s great creation.
Joining us in the wonderful support effort of that mission is secretary of the interior, a man who’s worked so hard in this, David Bernhardt. Thank you very much, David. Thank you. And EPA administrator, very powerful, man. When he says you can do it, you do it when he says you can’t it’s over with, you don’t have a chance, Andrew Wheeler. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you. Great job. And of course your governor Ron DeSantis, who’s run, not only did he run a great campaign, he’s a great governor. Thanks Ron. What a great job. What a great job he did. Of course we’ll let you know on November 3rd, I’ll let you know if he did a good job, okay?
Also, I want to introduce Lieutenant Governor, Jeanette Nunez who’s been such a fantastic friend and supporter. Thank you very much, Jeanette. And one of the great attorney generals, anywhere in the country, Ashley Moody. Ashley, thank you. Thank you very much. Florida CFO, Jimmy Patronis. Jimmy, thank you, Jimmy, great job. A man who everybody loves, he’s highly respected in Washington, he’s a great Senator, Lindsey Graham, South Carolina. Thank you, Lindsey. Great job. Representatives Gus Bilirakus, where’s Gus? Gus, how are you, Gus? Thank you very much. Great job you’re doing. We have a lot of good ones here. We have warriors. I call them my warriors, that’s what they are, and Gus, the job you’ve done and Matt Gaetz, Where’s Matt? Where is Matt? Where is Matt? That’s not a very good location for you, Matt, I’m used to having you sitting right up here. What’s going on? That’s good. Matt Gaetz, Brian Mast. Brian, fantastic guy. Thank you, Brian.
They are our warriors. You see what they do. They have to fight Pelosi, Schumer, they have to fight all these characters and they do very well in the fights. We want them on our site, Greg Stuby, Greg, thank you very much. Great job. Great job this morning, I watched. Bill Posey. Bill? Bill Posey, thank you, Bill. Michael Waltz. Michael, fantastic, Michael. And Ted Yoho, They’ve actually become my friends, actually. Ted, thank you very much. Great, great. Where’s Ted? Great Ted, thank you very much. Great job. And from South Carolina, state representative Nancy Mace, who’s got a very important race where I think you’re doing very well. I think you’re doing very well from what I hear, right? You got to win that one. That’s an important one. We’re behind you 1000%. You know that right? As well as mayor of Miami Dade County, Carlos Gimenez, where’s Carlos? Carlos, great.
I want to thank you all for being here. My administration’s proving every day that we can improve our environment while creating millions of high paying jobs. This is a really sharp contrast to the extreme, radical left that you’ve had to deal with and what you’re doing right now is a lot better than anything you’ve ever been accustomed to, I will tell you that. Joe Biden’s plan would destroy America’s middle class while giving a free pass to the world’s worst foreign polluters like China, Russia, India, and many others. They don’t have to clean up their lands, but we have to clean up ours. The left’s agenda isn’t about protecting the environment, it’s about punishing America and that’s true. Instead of focusing on radical ideology, my administration is focused on delivering real results and that’s what we have and we right now have the cleanest air we’ve ever had in this country. Let’s say over the last 40 years, because I assume 200 years ago was probably better. What do you think? I would say that. What do you think the fellas? So I do want to preface that because the fake news is back there. When I say the cleanest air we’ve ever had over a 40 year period, Lindsay, is that okay? A couple of hundred years ago, I would imagine it was pretty good, right?
To safeguard our stunning coastal areas, I signed legislation authorizing $100 million to fight the red tide and toxic algae and to preserve the Everglades and defend Florida from catastrophic flooding. You know about the flooding. We spent a lot of money on flooding and a lot of money on hurricanes and when your governors came to me and they said, “Can we have this? Can we have that? We need some more for the Panhandle,” they said, “We have to help the panhandle.” I said, “Without question and without any wait, let’s go.” Right? That’s what we said. You’ve never had it so easy in your life. He’d walk into my office, say, “Sir, just one more.” “How much is it going to cost? How about an extra billion?”
Your staff wasn’t happy.
Yeah, my staff wasn’t too thrilled. We had to override the staff a couple of times. We’ve directed over a half, a billion dollars to fix the Herbert Hoover Dike and Lake Okeechobee, Lake Okeechobee.
We fixed it up good, Mr. Mayor, we did a good job. Did a good job. We will now compete with this project and we’re way ahead, we are way ahead, about three years, I think, ahead of schedule from what the original time of completion was going to be and I’m in particular happy with what we’ve done on Lake Okeechobee. I know it well, I know it well.
Everyone said that one couldn’t be done, Ron, you know that right? They said it would never happen. You’ll never get it funded. It’s a big deal and it’s all gotten done, including the tide is gone, will be gone, finally from all of the problems that they’ve had with it.
We’ve expanded funding for the Everglades restoration by over 55% compared to four years ago and I also want to thank the Army Corps of Engineers for their vital work on the C44 Reservoir and the help, they are unbelievable. One thing, when they build it, I said, “You know you could do it a little bit less expensive than that. The walls don’t have to be seven feet thick. They could be two feet thick,” but you know when the Army Corps of Engineers do it, they do it right. That’s one thing I can tell you. We’re building the wall, the wall along Mexico, between Mexico and the United States. We’re over 300 miles now of wall and that’s a serious wall. That’s a wall that’s meant to last and meant to work, but that’ll help revitalize the wetlands in the St. Lucie River estuary and the Indian River lagoon.
Whoa, that’s pretty good. We hit home with that one, huh?
But today I have a very important announcement. I don’t know if it’s bigger than the things we just announced or the things that we’ve already done or we’re in the process of completing. In a few moments I will sign a presidential order extending the moratorium on offshore drilling on Florida’s Gulf Coast and expanding it to Florida’s Atlantic coast, as well as the coasts of Georgia and South Carolina.
thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
Thank you very much. I guess you like that one the best of all. This action follows close consultation with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, he’s been unbelievable, Florida Senators Marco Rubio, and Rick Scott, they’ve worked so hard, as well as South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott. Lindsey, thank you. Lindsay liked the idea right from the beginning. I said, “What do you think?” It took you, how long? About two seconds to say I like it. The Governor of South Carolina, a great man and a really great governor, Henry McMaster and I also want to thank the governor of Georgia, Brian Kemp, he’s doing a fantastic job and a Senator who from day one, he’s been with me, Senator David Perdue, Georgia, and Senator Kelly Loefler and Congressman Doug Collins and South Carolina State Representative Nancy Mace. Again, I want to thank you all, incredible.
Thanks to my administration’s pro-American energy policies we can take this step and the next step while remaining the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, we’re the largest producer now in the world by far. We’re number one in the world and we are energy independent, which is a nice…
With fracking, the shale revolution and the tremendous surge in American energy production, we’re showing that we can create jobs, safeguard the environment and keep energy prices low for America and low for our citizens and you see that, you also see it when you pump the gas into your car and you’re paying sometimes a lot less than $2.00 Lately, right? So we’re doing well and we have so much of it. I don’t know, we got more than everybody, anybody ever thought possible, right? That’s really incredible what’s happened. The approach of Joe Biden and the radical left is exactly the opposite. Their policies will destroy jobs, cause energy prices to double and triple and quadruple, to skyrocket beyond belief and the environment will be badly hurt. If you go by that, badly, badly hurt, it will be injured and permanently injured. And very importantly, they’ll take away our energy independence and they’ll do it quickly and they won’t even know what happened to them.
We’re dealing with some smart customers. They know exactly what to do, and they don’t like it when we’re energy independent. They don’t like it at all. So it’s been a really amazing thing for Florida from the environmental standpoint, and I have to tell you, from the energy standpoint and from a very important level of cost. You’re at a level of cost now with your electric and with so many other things caused and created by energy and fuel, the likes of which you haven’t seen in 30 years. As president I’ll defend our environment, I’ll defend our workers and our cherished way of life. Last month I signed the great American outdoors act, the most significant investment in our national parks in over a century, since Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt.
You know, they came to my office, a lot of the senators that I just introduced and Ron and everybody, they came to my office they said that, “This will make us and make you the number one environmental president since Teddy Roosevelt.” I said, “Huh, that sounds good.” Because I wasn’t going to do it. I figured, you know, let’s not do it. But when they said that, that was like a challenge. So I said, “Well, why does it only have to go back to Teddy Roosevelt, which is over a hundred years? Why can’t we say from George Washington? Right from the beginning?” They said, “Well, we’re not quite there yet,” but one other bill like this we’ll be there, Lindsay, you know that right? But it’s true, number one, since Teddy Roosevelt, who would’ve thought, Trump is the great environmentalist. You hear that, Ed? You hear that? That’s good. And I am. I am. I believe strongly in it.
Through this legislation, we’re providing nearly $10 billion for long delayed maintenance projects in our national parks and Florida has helped as much as anybody and maybe more. My administration has fully or partially cleaned up 61 EPA superfund pollution sites that were rotting all over our country. Far more than Obama and Biden. No matter how far you go back, more than any administration. Since my inauguration we’ve recovered more endangered or threatened species than any other administration has accomplished in its first term. Earlier this year, I announced that the United States would joined the one trillion trees initiative. We already have one billion trees pledged to be planted and it’s moving very rapidly. We’ve opened land-
As the last administration pursued its globalist agenda abroad, they were all over the place. They were everywhere but here, in our country. They were taking care of other lands, countries that you never heard of, they were taking care of and they didn’t do a good job there either. They neglected the fundamentals of public health right here in the United States, right here in our home. My administration is focused on ensuring crystal clean air and water. Under my administration we’ve seen a significant drop in air pollution since 2017, a very significant drop for the first time in nearly 30 years. We are strengthening standards to prevent vulnerable children from being exposed to lead and copper in drinking water, including in our schools. They were exposed to lead and copper in drinking water. We’ve done some job with that, that was an important one. And we’ve invested over $38 billion in drinking water infrastructure to care for our children. I’m committed to ensuring the United States has the cleanest air and cleanest water on earth.
The contrast between our vision and the radical left has never been more clear. They talk a big game and they do nothing. That’s really what it is, too. They talk and talk the environment, they talk and talk, nothing happens. It’s all talk. It’s all words and no action. You ever hear that?
To our political opponents, environmental policy is just an excuse to advance a socialist platform that will impose trillions and trillions of dollars in new taxes and send our jobs overseas, making it impossible to open up new companies and to live less expensively. Your energy costs would be four or five, sometimes even under scenarios, 10 times more expensive. And, really, you wouldn’t even have energy. To my administration, environmental protection is a sacred obligation and so it is our duty to fight for the dreams and livelihoods of the citizens we serve and to the citizens of Florida that I know so well and that I love, this is my home. This is my home.
We’re rapidly restoring the greatest economy in history. We created the greatest economy in the history of our country, and then we had to close it up when the China plague came in, we closed it up. We saved millions of lives. We banned highly infected China from coming in, it was highly infected. The people were highly infected. Wu Han province, we banned them. Nobody said do it, everybody said I shouldn’t do it. Biden said, “Don’t do it,” three months later he admitted I was right. But we banned people, we would have lost hundreds of thousands more, but we would have lost millions if we didn’t close it up and now we open it up and we’re setting records at every single level. So we’re maintaining that pristine resource of beautiful, clean environment at every single community in Florida and all over the country. We’ll always defend the Everglades and we will always safeguard the magnificent Florida coastline. We’ll expand access for fishermen and sportsmen, we’ll uphold your right to hunt and we will protect your right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment.
And I can tell you this, if Joe Biden gets in, he’ll have nothing to say about it. He’s not, let’s face it. Joe shot. If Joe Biden gets in, your second amendment is gone. It’s gone, either obliterated to a point of being gone or gone itself, okay? You will not have a second amendment. And the pressure put on me in the last four years to make massive changes to the second amendment, which would have really rendered it worthless, Ron knows, Ron knows. The pressure put on me, very few people would have been able to withstand that pressure. They would have made big, big cuts and big changes. Your second amendment will remain powerful, will remain strong, will remain with you.
We will reassure our critical supply chains and we will bring back jobs in factories from China and other foreign polluters and everything we do will be guided by our love of this state, its people and its priceless natural treasures. It’s a great state. From its breathtaking beaches to its shimmering bays, from its vast marshes, all those beautiful marshes, marshlands, to its wild forests, there is truly no place on earth like the great state of Florida.
I can tell you, I am so happy to have helped because when I was first elected, you had things that were in such bad shape and now they’re fixed or being fixed at a cost of a lot of money, but they’re either fixed or being fixed and soon there’ll be in better condition than they were the day they were built, which was many, many decades ago. We have things that were built a long time ago that were in a state of disrepair that you wouldn’t believe. As long as I’m president of the United States, we will conserve this wondrous national inheritance from Key West to Key Biscayne, from Tampa to Tallahassee, from the Pensacola, beautiful Pensacola, I love Pensacola. I think it was 97%, that’s one of the reasons I like it. They say, “How’d you do in Pensacola?” I said, “Was that maybe 95? 97?” Right up there, so that helps. It’s amazing how that can help, isn’t it? Right here to Jupiter, which I know very well, we’ll preserve this glorious land for our children, for our grandchildren and for every generation of American to come.
And I will now sign this order. It’s an order that does so much for the state of Florida. It’s an order that I’m so proud to sign. I’ve been talking about this with Ron and with all of the people I’ve mentioned for a long time and I said, we want to get it done and this protects your beautiful Gulf and your beautiful ocean and it will for a long time to come. So, congratulations to Florida and Georgia and South Carolina and, frankly, North Carolina. But I want to just thank everybody for being here and this is a true honor for me to sign this order. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you forever, baby.
Four more years.
Thank you very much and that was some greeting we had in North Carolina, I’ll tell you, I don’t know if you saw the crowd outside but it’s pretty amazing but we’ve had it in Texas and Ohio and South Carolina, Florida, it’s just incredible what’s happening. Please sit down. Please, and I’m honored to be in North Carolina in the presence of true American heroes as we commemorate the 75th anniversary of the American victory in World War II and a victory it was.
On September 2, 1945, the great General Douglas MacArthur accepted Japan’s unconditional surrender aboard the USS Missouri in Tokyo Bay. VJ Day marked the end of the deadliest conflict in human history and the ultimate triumph of American freedom. It was a big day. It was a great triumph, a great country, and our country is greater than ever before. That’s what’s happening and that’s what it is. Greater, with a greater military. With a great military than we’ve ever had before.
We’re deeply moved to be joined this afternoon by World War II veterans all of whom I’ve met, all of them are tough. I don’t want to mess around with any of them, I’ll tell you right now. Whose blood, sweat, grit, courage and unfailing devotion made that epic victory possible. These brave Americans raced into the fires of hell to vanquish tyranny, dethrone fascism, and defend the American way of life. You’ve earned the eternal and undying gratitude of all Americans and that’s why I’m here today. I wanted to be with you. You know what I’m talking about, don’t you? We had a good time a little while ago, right? Over at the Oval Office, Congressional Medal of Honor.
We’re privileged to be joined as well by veterans from every generation including a number of wounded warriors. We stand in awe of your service, I can say that, so respected, so loved, we are in awe. Joining us for this commemoration are Secretary David Bernhardt, Secretary, where’s David? Thank you David very much for being here. A great senator, a real friend of mine, a tremendous senator actually, he works very, very hard and he loves the people of North Carolina, Senator Thom Tillis, Thom, thank you very much. And some warriors, they’re in Congress and they’re tough and they’re smart, Representatives David Rouzer, Ted Budd and Dan Bishop, thank you fellas. They are tough, but you’re not as tough as these guys, I’ll tell you right now, right? You’re not as tough as them. There’s no better place to mark this profound World War II anniversary than right here in Wilmington, North Carolina. The people of this city and this state and it’s an incredible state and I want to thank you for being so nice to me. You’ve been very nice, very, very nice every time we’ve asked for something abut I’ve been nice to you also, I have to say that, but you made the extraordinary contributions to the war effort, that’s North Carolina, made this extraordinary contribution and so many, nearly two million American servicemen trained for combat in North Carolina.
More than any other state, wow, that’s pretty good, isn’t it? Who would know that. Two million trained, more than any state. Over 360,000 service members from your state fought in the Second World War. They battled on the cliffs of Normandy, over the skies of Africa, and in the deep waters of the Pacific, over 11,000 North Carolina patriots fought the enemy until their very last breath. You know what that means, right? Think of that, 11,000 died in the war. We want to thank you, boy, and we have family members here by the way, that’s them saying hello.
In Wilmington, more than 20,000 workers of the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company poured out every ounce of their strength to build an astonishing 243 ships for the U.s. Navy and it was the citizens of Wilmington who came together to save a priceless artifact of American history, the glorious battleship behind me, the USS North Carolina and that is some powerful and beautiful ship. Coming in, we got plenty of televisions on Air Force One, and they showed it in primetime in the 40s and they showed that ship and I’ll tell you, I shouldn’t say this, they don’t make them that way anymore. They really don’t. What a beautiful ship.
During World War II, this magnificent ship participated in many major naval offenses and in the Pacific theater itself, including the Marshall Islands, Iwo Jima and Okinawa earning more battle stars than any other battleship. We’re learning a lot today, right? That’s pretty good. Why are you clapping? You come from West Virginia. He loves West Virginia, so do I, right? But we’re clapping anyway, right? You better believe it. Thank you.
After the war the people of Wilmington organized a massive campaign to save this beautiful ship from the scrapyard. They preserved it as a memorial to the gallant deeds of American sailors, a monument to the American workers that built it and an enduring symbol of American greatness. Now more than 200,000 people visit the site each year to learn the history and the heroism that defines our nation. This afternoon my administration is formally recognizing the city’s exceptional contributions to victory in the Second World War. It is my tremendous honor to officially designate Wilmington, North Carolina as our nation’s very first World War II heritage city. That’s a big deal, our nation’s very first, Wilmington. Congratulations to you all.
God is saluting you up there, I tell you. We may have to go a little quicker than I thought, right? With this designation, we proudly declare that in America we don’t tear down the past, we celebrate our heroes. We cherish our heritage, we preserve our history and we build a future. This mighty vessel and this magnificent town will forever tell that story with this designation so I want to just congratulate North Carolina and Wilmington. That’s a fantastic, a fantastic thing.
I want to thank Senator Tillis and Congressman Rouzer, stand up please, in between the lightning bolts, for their work to make this day possible, thank you Thom, thank you fellas, great job. Let me also thank retired Navy captain Wilbur Jones who has championed the cause of World War II heritage cities. Wilbur, thank you. Thank you Wilbur. Great job. Great job. So Wilbur, you know a lot of people wanted this, right? So you are just a tough cookie. You got it. Number one, number one in the nation. I want to thank Wilbur, that’s great. I also want to recognize several of the heroes who saved American freedom and I’ve known some of them since I’ve been in office, I’ve seen them. There they are, here today is my good friend who I just left and he was in the Oval Office with me at the White House, Woody Williams. 75 years ago, Woody showed fearless courage as a Marine in the Battle of Iwo Jima. You are amazing. I promised him I would not tell that he’s 97 years old, I promised. I’ll tell you he’s 100% sharp. He’s 100% sharp, I know a 78-year-old that’s not so sharp and he’s 97 and he’s 100% because it has nothing to do with that. 78 is young. Depends who’s 78, that’s all.
He’s 97, I said, “Man you are something,” and physically in great shape. He braved a torrent of hostile fire while destroying one enemy machine gun position after another, knocked them out, one after one for his daring actions. President Truman, think of that, awarded Woody the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest in our land. Woody, congratulations. You inspire us all. It was great to have you on Air Force One. I have promised him maybe two years ago, I said, “I’ll take you on Air Force One.” He came up, he’s very aggressive. He said, “I’d like to fly on Air Force One,” I said, “I’ll do it,” and today we did it, right? We got it done. Thanks Woody. Great job.
Also joining us today is Paul Phillips, a veteran of World War II, Korea and Vietnam. During the Second World War Paul proudly served on the USS North Carolina in the Pacific theater. At 93 years old, he has returned today to visit the ship upon which he nobly served. He’s a tremendous man. Paul, it’s our honor to have you with us. Please Paul, stand up. Thank you Paul. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you Paul. Great job Paul. Appreciate it.
Here as well is army veteran Greg Melikian. When Greg was 20 years old he served as a radio operator in the headquarters of Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower. I’d love to have heard some of those conversations. Much more interesting than today, right? 75 years ago, General Eisenhower directed Greg to broadcast around the world the long-awaited news that Germany had surrendered. Greg, your being here is very, very much appreciated. Thank you very much, it was a great honor meeting you before. Thank you very much. Very, very great honor.
Our task today is to pass on to the next generation the blessings of liberty that you fought for and that you bled for, all for security. You wanted to secure our future, you wanted to praise and raise our flag and you did that. You raised our flag and you stand proud and you stand tall and we’re doing it in our nation too. Almost everyone. Every once in a while you see somebody not do it, we don’t like it when they don’t do it, do we? We don’t like it. I want to just thank you, fantastic job. American warriors did not defeat fascism and oppression overseas only to watch our freedoms be trampled by violent mobs here at home. We stopped those violent mobs very easily, all they had to do is say, “Please come in, Mr. President.” We’ll have it done in one hour. Please come in. It’s one of the great … To me just incredible that they don’t immediately, they just … As you know in Portland, the mayor last night, he was raided, his home was raided, he was thrown out of his home and then he’ll stand up and he’ll fight for these people. These people only know one thing and that is strength. That’s all they know. Strength, and we have strength.
For the sake of all Americans, we must uphold the rule of law and defend the American dream for every child in our land. We must teach our children that America is the land of heroes like you, you’re heroes, you know that, right? Woody, you’re heroes, you’re great, great men. Great men, better believe it. We’re not ashamed in America, we’re not ashamed of anything. I signed a very important edict recently. Three months ago they were ripping down statues. I said, “You can rip them down but you’re going to serve 10 years in jail if you do,” and as soon as I did that, incredible, you haven’t heard about statues coming down, have you? Statues or monuments. But we’re not ashamed of our country. We’re proud of our country, prouder than we are of anything else. Our country is great and we’re going to keep it that way. We’re going to keep our country great.
Together we will remember America’s towering victories. We will recognize America’s outstanding virtues and we will pay tribute to the heroes who keep us safe, strong, proud and free and I also in addition to our wonderful brilliant military, I want to thank law enforcement because the law enforcement, without them, we’re not here today very well. They’ve done an incredible job. Really an incredible job. Thank you again to the World War II veterans in attendance today. This is such a great tribute to North Carolina. We will never forget what you did for us, your legacy is etched forever into the heart and soul of a grateful nation and this spot is right now one of the most important military spots anywhere in the world. Congratulations to everybody and thank you for making it come true. Thank you all very much. God bless you, God bless North Carolina and God bless America. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
John, thank you very much, and I know you’re going to be talking to us about some additional help, and actually I look forward to that meeting. Normally, I wouldn’t, but the people can use it down here. I see… Incredible. What’s the percentage of people that have insurance on their homes?
It’s around 50%, and most of the area you saw today [inaudible 00:00:26], and so those people are not going to see [inaudible 00:00:30].
Not for long, I can see.
The biggest challenge is for those who have it, they still about a $7500 hurricane deductible, which is very, very hard [inaudible 00:00:40].
So we’ll be talking about that, I think?
Sure.
We’ll be talking about it. Well, thank you very much, everybody. And I’m here to support the great people of Louisiana. It’s been a tremendous state for me. I love the people. We’ve had a good relationship right from the beginning. It’s very important that I was here, and already met some people that have been absolutely devastated. This was a tremendously powerful storm. In fact, when it came in, it was actually much bigger than Katrina, I would say. Katrina being somewhat of a landmark, I think, in terms of devastation, but this had more power. This was almost coming in at a five. It was a five a little bit out offshore, and it came in as a four, but 150 mile an hour. It was up to 185 at one point. I don’t know that we’ve ever seen that. But we’re joined by Governor John Bel Edwards and Senator John Kennedy, two friends of mine. They’ve done a fantastic job representing the state. And acting Secretary of Homeland Security, who’s no longer really acting in my mind, because he just got a promotion. And if John Kennedy can push him with Bill, that’d be terrific because he deserves it. He’s been doing a great job. There’s the man. Don’t talk to me anymore. I’ve done it for you. Right there is the man. But thank you very much, Chad. And FEMA administrator, Pete Gaynor. Pete, great job. And he’s all over the country right now doing different things. And we have a lot of different elements happening, but we have to take care of Louisiana. We have to take care of Texas. Texas got a little bit lucky.
Thanks also to the members of Congress that are here. I have a little list. That’s a lot of members. I don’t know. Where are you folks back there? I love those guys. First of all, Louisiana Attorney General. Where’s Jeff? Jeff Landry. Jeff, could you hear Jeff? He is so good. He is so tough and so good. And I agree with so much of what you do, almost all of it. I’m not sure that I’ve seen anything I don’t agree with. Great job, Jeff Landry, everybody. Thank you very much. Congressman Steve Scalise. Steve, he’s probably the bravest man in the room, but he’s done good. And I actually think he’s better looking today than he was three years ago, if you want to know the truth. He went through hell, and we found out that his family loves him. That’s for sure, because were they were with you all the way. That was a rough time in that hospital that night, right? That was a rough time, Steve. We’re glad to have you. People love you. People love you.
Congressman Clay Higgins, and Clay, thank you very much, Clay, for being here. Congressman Garret Graves. Garret, nice to see you. What are you doing sitting back there? I can’t believe it. That’s not like you and Mike. I can’t believe you guys. They’re being low key today for a change. Right? And Mike Johnson, my friend, and he’s been a supporter. They’re all warriors. These people are warriors. They fight for us and they fight for the people that they represent, and they’re incredible warriors. Thank you, Mike. I appreciate it very much. And State Senator Mark Abraham, and Mark, thank you. Good job you’re doing here. Great job. James Waskom, Director of Louisiana Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. Good. You’ve got plenty to prepare for. Now do you have other storms, James, coming in? Is that what I’m hearing?
Afraid so.
You got to be kidding, James. Don’t let that happen.
Not necessarily Louisiana, but they’re coming across the Atlantic.
In other words, they’re heading in a general direction. Is that what you’re saying? That’s not good. What looks like the likelihood that they actually form and reach?
[inaudible 00:04:17].
So you had some tremendously bad storms 50, 60, 70 years ago. You and I were talking about dates. What’s the difference now, would you say, in terms of storms coming in now compared to many years ago?
They seem to be more frequent, Mr. President, and stronger. So if there’s one thing, that’s probably what I would say.
But the other thing is, this one went from a tropical storm to a category 4-
Quickly.
In 36 hours.
That’s right.
And so we had a lot of people who early on, I don’t think they were going to evacuate. But hours before landfall, [inaudible 00:04:58], I think people decided that they needed to… Tony, you told me that. People evacuated late. Thank God, they did, because there’s no way we would be sitting here right now with four deaths-
So that really, the fact that they finally did get out, they saw it build. It built so fast, didn’t it? Because it looked like it was going to be the lesser between Marco and this, and Marco-
Disintegrated.
It disintegrated, and this just came in roaring. It’s unbelievable. Nick Hunter. Nick, thank you. Great job, Nick. Great job you’re doing. We appreciate it. Mayor of Lake Charles, you got hit hard. Were you the hardest hit, would you say, Nick?
I can’t quantify that we were the hardest hit, but I can tell you we took a hell of a punch.
Yeah, you took a big punch.
Yes, sir. Probably 100% with no power.
A hundred percent?
A hundred percent of the city was without power.
So when people get used to air conditioning, and this is very hot, when people get used to air conditioning and all of a sudden they don’t have it, that’s a very traumatic situation, isn’t it?
Yes, it is. You find out how acclimated we are to modern conveniences at a time like this.
Yeah.
And no power, very limited amounts of water right now make it very difficult for a lot of people in Lake Charles.
Well, you have a great reputation. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Michael Danahay. Michael?
Back over this way.
Hi, Michael. Hi, Michael. How are you doing, Michael?
As mayor of Sulfur, are you hit, would you say, like this one? Pretty much like this one? Very close. How’s it going?
[inaudible 00:06:33], we have basic services back up [inaudible 00:06:38].
Well, good job. Good luck. And the mayor of Westlake, Bob Hardey.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, Bob. How’s it going?
Kind of like Michael. We got hit pretty hard. I would say-
Similar.
65% have [inaudible 00:06:58], but we’re working at it, so [inaudible 00:07:10]. It’s not going to be fast, but [inaudible 00:07:14].
Well, you’ll all get it going. One thing I know about this state, they rebuild it fast. There’s no problem. And we’ll supply what we have to supply, and you know what a lot of that is? A thing called green. Right? And we’ll take care of you. I’ll be speaking with you and John. And I just want to recognize Bill Cassidy and Congressman Ralph Abraham, two great people. And Bill’s going through a problem. And I hope Ralph is fine, right? Ralph is fine. And Bill is going through a problem, but I spoke to him the other day and it sounds like he’s doing well. And he’s been, along with John, a terrific senator.
So Hurricane Laura was a category four storm and it was actually for a little while, a five.
And it was actually for a little while a five. It was up to 175, almost 180 miles an hour. Few people have ever even heard of that with winds. Currently when it came in, it was at 150 miles per hour at landfall, damaging thousands of homes and causing hundreds of road blockages and major power outages. And I heard, I think this is correct, that it was the most powerful storm coming in and hitting your land in 150 years.
Yes, sir.
Coming in.
Not to assume that the measure was right. It may be-
Yeah, you don’t know.
… six, we don’t know.
How do they do it? They put their finger up, right? I just visited the Cajun Navy and the relief center. They’re fantastic. I want to thank the pastors, and we had a great pastor just gave us a little prayer. And he didn’t choke. He gave a great prayer, I’ll tell you. He got up there and he just gave it. I’ve seen some didn’t quite get it out as nicely, but he did a fantastic job. And I want to thank all of the pastors across the state, people of faith across the state who have been helping families and communities recover. Before the storm struck, I approved an emergency declaration under the auspices of John and John Bel. We had a very quick one. I would say you got that almost immediately, wouldn’t you say, John? I think before the storm got here, you had your emergency. We knew what was coming.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Yeah. Thank you, John. But we got it very quickly, and we’re going to be discussing some other things in a little while. Yesterday, I approved a major disaster declaration that helps individuals and business owners, which is a little bit different, but it goes right to the individual. And I’ve signed that already. And so you’re all set to go on that. FEMA has delivered 2.6 million liters of water and 1.4 million meals. And that’s a lot of meals. So you’re pretty busy, I guess, Pete, right?
Yes, sir.
That’s incredible. Great job. Your people are incredible. I haven’t had, and Pete’s done this now for a long time, but I haven’t had one complaint with all of the storms we’ve had in Texas and here and every… I haven’t had one complaint. So you’ve done a hell of a job, Pete. Thank you. Pete Gaynor, everybody. Don’t hire him away, please. Private enterprises look and they say, “Hey, let’s go take him away.” Don’t let him leave, John, please. All right? Is that all right?
He’s the best.
We’re also assisting state and local officials to restore water to roughly 180,000 residents and to protect energy infrastructure. I want to thank the men and women of FEMA and the first responders and the law enforcement, which we love and we cherish, and doing a fantastic job and don’t get the kind of recognition that they should get. But actually they do because the people love them, right? The people love them. And we appreciate our law enforcement. Our hearts go out to the families who have lost loved ones. What is the number would you say, John, right now?
We’ve lost a dozen because of the storms.
Amazing. Well, it’s a tremendous number, but you were thinking it could’ve been a lot worse.
Yes, we had the flood search come in-
Yeah.
… with [inaudible 00:11:14].
Amazing. Amazing. So 15 years ago this week, Louisiana was devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Katrina seems to be the standard. It seems to be the one that’s… 15, is it actually today?
Today.
15 years ago today. And whether you come from Louisiana or Fifth Avenue in New York City, you know all about Katrina, right?
Absolutely.
That was a bad, bad deal. And devastation, and now the devastation was far greater, even though the storm probably wasn’t as powerful.
Yes, sir, but that was because we had levitators and-
Correct.
But the storm itself-
Are your levies now in good shape?
The best ever.
The best ever. Good. That’s good. So you came together and you rebuilt. America helped. And here we are today, and you’re going to have this situation taken care of very, very quickly. I’d like to ask Governor John Bell Edwards to say a few words. And then, John, if you would say a few words, and we’ll take a few questions from the press if you’d like. We’ll talk about primarily this storm. Okay?
Well, thank you very much, Mr. President, for visiting today, and we really appreciate your close cooperation and all the communication you’ve had with the members of the Cabinet [inaudible 00:12:28]. It unleashes assistance that we just can’t get without [inaudible 00:12:42]. They’ve never seen that before and we’ve had power outages from here to do there. But it’s affected our water systems. So we have nursing homes, hospitals, jails that have the ability to function [inaudible 00:13:03].
Are you in need of water too? Bottles of water?
Yes, sir. And we have lots coming from FEMA. [inaudible 00:13:24].
When you think of it, Louisiana has been through a lot with the COVID and with this couple of other things, and you have all done a very good job.
[inaudible 00:15:28].
Is that right? You’ve done a great job. You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. And Nick, I’m going to come back and find out at the end of three weeks how popular you are.
Yes, sir. Well this will definitely be a big test.
This is a big test.
Yes, sir.
But you’re going to be very good. You may be very much better if you could be better, which I doubt.
Thank you.
John, please say a few words. John can you?
Mr. President, a lot of Washington politicians would not be here right now. A lot of presidents.
My [inaudible 00:16:00] with an election three months away. And let’s not kid each other. You don’t care about Louisiana. So the question is whether you care more this time than the last time, and I think you’ll do better this time. You did pretty good last time.
We did good.
[inaudible 00:16:00] and you never [inaudible 00:16:29]. I don’t know why bad things happen to good people, but I know [inaudible 00:16:39] I’m going to ask. But this is a really bad thing, and it hurt a lot of good people. And these are our people.
Yeah.
Our people. These are the people how live here. They go to work. They obey the law. They pay their taxes, and try to do the right thing [inaudible 00:16:54]. We’re going to need help. And I know that’s not all your job. I got to work with my heavy lifting and Steven and Gary and Mike and [inaudible 00:17:06]. We got to get Congress to go along, but we need you back. We’ll recover from this. Louisianians are tough as a pine but, but this one hit us different. [Or 00:17:38] you wouldn’t have to be here today. A lot of politicians and that says a whole lot about you Mr. Trump.
Or they would’ve been in a basement.
You said that. They didn’t hear that.
You know, if anybody would like to make a statement, Steve, would you like to make a statement?
I just want to thank you for coming over. Were you the same the relief center operation work in Katrina. People just come together. Neighbors helping neighbors, Cajun Navy, which something that has developed over the last few years of just a bunch of people that are Cajuns from around this area and they know that we have tough times. We’re resilient people and they help everybody else. They’re showing up, the pastor. The fate-based groups have come together after Katrina when there were difficulties hitting, making sure they get everything they need. Secretary Cuomo reached out as well on top of this when you getting that reparation quickly helped us to prepare. These are tough, resilient people to rebuild and knowing that the federal government’s got their back.
And we do, Steve.
So thank you for coming.
And we do have their back. Mike Johnson. Would you want to say something?
On behalf of what’s been said, Mr. President, the impact of the storm hit our friends here really hard. We have presidents and citizens all the way up to the North that are equally affected [00:03:19] so they’re grateful that you’re here. I have thousands of constituents and people who want me to tell you how much they appreciate you [00:03:29].
Alright [ crosstalk 00:19:32]. I always will. Fellas? Anybody?
district and I used to.
Let’s go [crosstalk 00:19:37]., go ahead.
Mr. President, I cannot describe how it is that you’re here today the people that I’m honoring to serve. I was born in 1961 many, many powerful I’ve never seen anyone this fast. In this community, we’re resilient, we’re strong, and, yes, we will rebuild strong with our federal fathers and it’s just been amazing to observe interaction and the cooperation across political or ideological minds. We do need your help, and I cannot describe the humanitarian crisis that we’re facing it’s done with love and courage and apathy and brotherhood and. I think our governor has been incredible and I believe we demonstrated the very best of American constituents.
So when you’re a young guy [crosstalk 00:20:57] I didn’t know you were so young. He’s a young guy.
.
Mr. President, I’d like to
Yes, please.
Right now you’ve got Sheriff Tony [crosstalk 00:21:10] and all the first-responders and all the work that they’ve done. [inaudible 00:21:14] four years ago, just a little over four years ago, you came out as President and and basically showed American that you care about people and the economy
That was the bad one. That was the water more than one. That was a bad one. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Great job you’re doing.
One thing before we conclude. You signed a and that allows individual citizens. So I’m going to give out a phone number on that those disaster survivors that need assistance from the federal government can register [crosstalk 00:21:52] right now: 1-800-621-3362. Or, you can go online, if you have internet service, disasterassistance.gov. Either way, you can register and we can provide disaster assistance. If you don’t register, you can’t do that. So I encourage everyone in the last 15 hours, or since you signed in 15,000 people, the [crosstalk 00:22:21] so right now let’s just get that phone number off and let’s get people registered.
Give the information once again, please.
1-800-621-3362 or disasterassistance.gov to register for assistance.
Gary? Gary, anything to say?
are your shelter? You wouldn’t have everything they can do, but there’s no, no electricity, no water. There’s a certain level of things are really going to require the government. So we do appreciate it goes back down. We appreciate you being here. One last thing, you know, we’re asking all these people go back to Greenville. If we’re asking you to do that, and we don’t have a safe place, safety floods here in Southwest Louisiana in itself, sexual retailers and really big projects that I think will help provide security to the Southwest area and help ensure that this is the simplest.
That’s great. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Pete, let me ask you, you’re bringing the big generators down. Are they here yet? Are you bringing, thank you very much. Any questions of any of the folks.
And any questions of any of the folks?
Could you possibly take that off because I can’t hear you?
How’s the storm impacting the threat of the coronavirus? We know National Guard was deployed to help with the pandemic but now it appears more than this.
Well, they’re doing a very good job down here with respect to that and even pre-storm. But I’ll ask John Bel to say a few words about that. John?
Well, thank you. Obviously, we didn’t like losing much of this past week with our community-based testing. We’re still recording more than 10,000 tests a day. But on Monday, we will resume our community and surge testing across the state of Louisiana using the National Guard. Of course our hospitals and clinics continue to test every single day, but we don’t like not testing. We’re going to turn that back on Monday, which is why we have all 6,200 National Guardsmen mobilized today because they’re doing the clean up. They’re cutting the trees down. They’re distributing food and water and ice and tarps. They’re managing warehouses. They’re delivering generators. And on Monday, they’re going to start testing as well. So I appreciate the question but we’re going to get right back on it.
Mr. President, when is your administration turning on the EPA air monitors to check for toxic chemicals? [inaudible 00:25:21]
Chad, do you want to answer that question?
Me? Is that something to do with tracking?
I don’t know the answer to that question. I can get you the answer on it locally.
I can tell you that we had to keep today open ground on Thursday, I’m sorry, on Friday. It might have been Thursday, I lose track of time. They’ve been on the ground with the EQ in the Lake Charles, Westlake, Sulphur area monitoring for air quality. They’ve been here since the day the storm hit. I’m quite certain of that.
Also, do you think that there are more frequent storms [inaudible 00:01:58].
Go ahead just take it off.
Mr.President, [inaudible 00:26:05]
Well, that was the question I asked these folks. Are the films more frequent? Are they bigger? Now, in all fairness, you probably had your biggest storms. I think you said your biggest one was in the 1800s, but who knows, who knows it might’ve been a very small storm by comparison. There’s no way of really understanding that or knowing that, but the area has been a storm area. There are tremendous advantages to being here. People love it. That’s why they would never leave. They wouldn’t even think about it. But one thing, I have I’ve met a lot of people, not one person would even think about it. I think if they ever even suggested it, that would be the end of them, right? So this is home.
John. Would you like to answer that question, they are talking about the storms and frequency, do you see a difference?
Well, I ask for the cooperation from the press. I know I was the 24th storm surge but that didn’t stop us. I there yesterday in the motel and This thing is 600 miles wide. We are thankful we didn’t have a storm surge. So imagine 9 feet away comes through that door right now. We are all dead. And that’s what came through. And that not just Lake Charles and South Louisiana. It goes all the way up, North of here, bends over across the state. And hit every one of our Congressional districts. So this was, yeah Katrina people heard about it because of the level was up. But this is bad as I ever seen, folks.
And I have heard that if the path was different, we got lucky in the sense, maybe not for the people in the way, but frankly, we got a little bit lucky. If the path were over a little bit more, one way or the other, this could have been by far the worst storm, the worst hurricane you’ve ever had.
If we had not had gone to the west side of the state, So we had East bends, West bends, and North bends to work to represent and South bends.
Got a little bit lucky. That’s what I’ve heard from some people. Thank you all very much. We’ll be making another stop soon. Thank you very much.
(singing)
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Friends, delegates, and distinguished guests, please. I stand before you tonight honored by your support, proud of the extraordinary progress we have made together over the last four incredible years and blooming with confidence in the bright future we will build for America over the next four years.
We begin this evening, our thoughts are with the wonderful people who have just come through the wrath of Hurricane Laura. We are working closely with state and local officials in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, sparing no effort to save lives. While the hurricane was fierce, one of the strongest to make landfall in 150 years, the casualties and damage were far less than thought possible only 24 hours ago.
And this is due to the great work of FEMA, law enforcement, and the individual states. I will be going this weekend. And congratulations, thank you for that great job out there. We really appreciate it. We are one national family, and we will always protect, love, and care for each other. Here tonight are the people who have made my journey possible and filled my life with so much joy.
For her incredible service to our nation and its children, I want to thank our magnificent first lady. Thank you sweetheart. I also want to thank my amazing daughter Ivanka for that introduction, and to all of my children. Ivanka, please stand up. Thank you. And to all of my children and grandchildren, I love you more than words can express. I know my brother Robert is looking down on us right now from heaven. He was a great brother, and was very proud of the job we are all doing. Thank you. We love you, Robert.
Let us also take a moment to show our profound appreciation for a man who has always fought by our side and stood up for our values, a man of deep faith and steadfast conviction, our vice president, Mike Pence. And Mike is joined by his beloved wife, a teacher and military mom, Karen Pence. Thank you, Karen.
My fellow Americans, tonight, with a heart full of gratitude and boundless optimism, I profoundly accept this nomination for President of the United States.
The Republican Party, the party of Abraham Lincoln, goes forward united, determined, and ready to welcome millions of Democrats, independents, and anyone who believes in the greatness of America and the righteous heart of the American people.
In the new term as president, we will again build the greatest economy in history, quickly returning to full employment, soaring incomes and record prosperity. We will defend America against all threats and protect America against all dangers. We will lead America into new frontiers of ambition and discovery, and we will reach four new heights of national achievement. We will rekindle faith in our values, new pride in our history, and a new spirit of unity that can only be realized through love for our great country.
Because we understand that America is not a land cloaked in darkness. America is the torch that enlightens the entire world. Gathered here at our beautiful and majestic White House, known all over the world as the people’s house, we cannot help but marvel at the miracle that is our great American story.
This has been the home of larger-than-life figures like Teddy Roosevelt and Andrew Jackson, who rallied Americans to bold visions of a bigger and brighter future. Within these walls lived tenacious generals like President Grant and Eisenhower, who led our soldiers in the cause of freedom. From these grounds, Thomas Jefferson sent Lewis and Clark to chart our continent. In the depths of a bloody Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln looked out these very windows upon a half-completed Washington Monument and asked God and his Providence to save our nation. Two weeks after Pearl Harbor, Franklin Delano Roosevelt welcomed Winston Churchill, and just inside, they set our people on course to victory in the Second World War.
In recent months, our nation and the entire planet has been struck by a new and powerful invisible enemy. Like those brave Americans before us, we are meeting this challenge. We are delivering lifesaving therapies and will produce a vaccine before the end of the year, or maybe even sooner. We will defeat the virus and the pandemic and emerge stronger than ever before.
What united generations past was an unshakable confidence in America’s destiny and an unbreakable faith in the American people. They knew that our country is blessed by God and has a special purpose in this world. It is that conviction that inspired the formation of our union, our westward expansion, the abolition of slavery, the passage of civil rights, the space program and the overthrow of fascism, tyranny, and communism.
This towering American spirit has prevailed over every challenge and has lifted us to the summit of human endeavor. And yet despite all of our greatness as a nation, everything we have achieved is now in danger. This is the most important election in the history of our country.
Thank you. At no time before have voters faced a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, or two agendas. This election will decide if we save the American dream or whether we allow a socialist agenda to demolish our cherished destiny. It will decide whether we rapidly create millions of high-paying jobs or whether we crush our industries and send millions of these jobs overseas, as has been foolishly done for many decades. Your vote will decide whether we protect law-abiding Americans or whether we give free rein to violent anarchists, and agitators, and criminals who threaten our citizens.
And this election will decide whether we will defend the American way of life or whether we will allow a radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it. That won’t happen. At the Democrat National Convention, Joe Biden and his party repeatedly assailed America as a land of racial, economic and social injustice. So tonight, I ask you a simple question, how can the Democratic Party ask to lead our country when it spent so much time tearing down our country?
In the Left’s backward view, they do not see America as the most free, just, and exceptional nation on Earth. Instead, they see a wicked nation that must be punished for its sins. Our opponents say that redemption for you can only come from giving power to them. This is a tired anthem spoken by every repressive movement throughout history. But in this country, we don’t look to career politicians for salvation. In America, we do not turn to government to restore ourselves. We put our faith in almighty God.
Joe Biden is not a savior of America’s soul. He is the destroyer of America’s jobs, and if given the chance, he will be the destroyer of America’s greatness. For 47 years, Joe Biden took the donations of blue-collar workers, gave them hugs, and even kisses, and told them he felt their pain, and then he flew back to Washington, and voted to ship our jobs to China and many other distant lands. Joe Biden spent his entire career outsourcing their dreams and the dreams of American workers, offshoring their jobs, opening their borders and sending their sons and daughters to fight in endless foreign wars, wars that never ended.
Four years ago, I ran for president because I cannot watch this betrayal of our country any longer. I could not sit by as career politicians let other countries take advantage of us on trade, borders, foreign policy, and national defense. Our NATO partners, as an example, were very far behind in their defense payments. But at my strong urging, they agreed to pay $130 billion more a year, the first time in over 20 years that they upped their payments. And this $130 billion will ultimately go to $400 billion a year. And Secretary General Stoltenberg, who heads NATO, was amazed after watching for so many years, and said that President Trump did what no one else was able to do. Thank you.
From the moment I left my former life behind, and it was a good life, I have done nothing but fight for you. I did what our political establishment never expected and could never forgive, breaking the cardinal rule of Washington politics. I kept my promise. Together we have ended the rule of the failed political class, and they are desperate to get their power back by any means necessary. You have seen that. They are angry at me because instead of putting them first, I very simply said, “America first.” Thank you. Days after taking office, we shocked the Washington establishment and withdrew from the last administration’s job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. I then immediately approved the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines, ended the unfair and very costly Paris Climate Accord, and secured, for the first time, American energy independence.
We passed record-setting tax and regulation cuts at a rate nobody had ever seen before. Within three short years, we built the strongest economy in the history of the world. Washington insiders asked me not to stand up to China. They pleaded with me to let China continue stealing our jobs, ripping us off, and robbing our country blind. But I kept my word to the American people. We took the toughest, boldest, strongest, and hardest-hitting action against China in American history by far.
They said that it would be impossible to terminate and replace NAFTA, but again they were wrong. Earlier this year, I ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand-new Mexico-US-Canada agreement into law. And right now, auto companies and others are building their plants and factories in America, not firing their employees, and not deserting us for other countries.
In perhaps no area did the Washington special interests try harder to stop us than on my policy of pro-American immigration. But I refused to back down, and today America’s borders are more secure than ever before. Thank you. We ended catch-and-release, stopped asylum fraud, took down human traffickers who prey on women and children, and we have deported 20000 gang members and 500000 criminal aliens. We have already built 300 miles of border wall, and we are adding 10 new miles every single week. The wall will soon be complete, and it is working beyond our wildest expectations.
We are joined this evening by members of the Border Patrol Union, representing our country’s courageous border agents. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you. Brave, brave people. You see, this country loves our law enforcement. They do. They really do. Love and respect.
When I learned that the Tennessee Valley Authority laid off hundreds of American workers and forced them to train their lower-paid foreign replacements, I promptly removed the chairman of the board. And now those talented American workers have been rehired, and are back providing power to Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Virginia. They have their old jobs back, and some are here with us this evening. Please stand. You went through a lot. Please stand. Thank you. Thank you very much. You’ve been through a lot. Thank you very much.
Last month, I took on big pharma. You think that’s easy? It’s not. And signed orders that would massively lower the cost of your prescription drugs, and give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures. We passed the decades-long-awaited right to try. We also passed VA Accountability and VA Choice, our great veterans, we’re taking care of our veterans. 91% approval rating this month, the VA given by our veterans. First time anything like that has ever happened.
By the end of my first term, we will have approved more than 300 federal judges, including two great new Supreme Court justices.
And to bring prosperity to our forgotten inner cities, we worked hard to pass historic criminal justice reform, prison reform, opportunity zones, and long-term funding of historically Black colleges and universities. And before the China virus came in, produced the best unemployment numbers for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian-Americans ever recorded. And I say very modestly that I have done more for the African-American community than any president since Abraham Lincoln, our first Republican president. And I have done more in three years for the Black community than Joe Biden has done in 47 years. And when I am re-elected, the best is yet to come.
Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much.
When I took office, the Middle East was in total chaos. ISIS was rampaging, Iran was on the rise, and the war in Afghanistan had no end in sight. I withdrew from the terrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. Unlike many presidents before me, I kept my promise, recognized Israel’s true capital, and moved our Embassy to Jerusalem. But not only did we talk about it as a future site, we got it built. Rather than spending $1 billion on a new building as planned, we took an already owned, existing building in a better location. Real estate deal, right? And opened it at a cost of less than $500000. Many things like that the government is doing right now. We also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And this month we achieved the first Middle East peace deal in 25 years. Thank you to the UAE. Thank you to Israel. In addition, we obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate, and killed its founder and leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Then, in a separate operation, we eliminated the world’s number-one terrorist by far, Qassim Suleimani.
Unlike previous administrations, I have kept America out of new wars, and our troops are coming home. We have spent nearly $2.5 trillion on completely rebuilding our military, which was very badly depleted when I took office, as you know. This includes three separate pay raises for our great warriors. We also launched the Space Force, the first new branch of the United States Military since the Air Force was created almost 75 years ago.
We have spent the last four years reversing the damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. Biden’s record is a shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals and blunders in our lifetime. He has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history. Biden voted for the NAFTA disaster, the single worst trade deal ever enacted. He supported China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, one of the greatest economic disasters of all time. After those Biden calamities, the United States lost one in four manufacturing jobs. We laid off workers in Michigan, Ohio, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and many other states. They did not want to hear Biden’s hollow words of empathy. They wanted their jobs back.
As vice president, he supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for the US auto industry. He backed the horrendous South Korea trade deal, which took many jobs from our country, and which I’ve reversed and made a great deal for our country. He repeatedly supported mass amnesty for illegal immigrants. He voted for the Iraq war. He opposed the mission that took out Osama bin Laden. He opposed killing Suleimani, he oversaw the rise of ISIS, and cheered the rise of China as a positive development for America and the world. Some positive development. That is why China supports Joe Biden, and desperately wants him to win. I can tell you that upon very good information.
China would own our country if Joe Biden got elected. Unlike Biden, I will hold them fully accountable for the tragedy that they caused all over the world, they caused. In recent months, our nation and the world has been hit by the once-in-a-century pandemic that China allowed to spread around the globe. They could have stopped it, but they allowed it to come out. We are grateful to be joined tonight by several of our incredible nurses and first responders. Please stand and accept our profound thanks and gratitude.
Many Americans, including me, I have sadly lost friends and cherished loved ones to this horrible disease. As one nation, we mourn, we grieve, and we hold in our hearts forever the memories of all of those lives that have been so tragically taken so unnecessary. In their honor, we unite. In their memory, we will overcome it. And when the China virus hit, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II, invoking the Defense Production Act. We produce the world’s largest supply of ventilators. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator, which is a miracle. Good job heading the task force by our great vice president. Thank you very much, Mike. Please stand up.
We shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves, and gowns to our frontline health care workers. To protect our nation’s seniors, we rushed supplies, testing kits, and personnel to nursing homes. We gave everything you can possibly give, and we’re still giving it because we are taking care of our senior citizens. The Army Corps of Engineers built field hospitals, and the Navy deployed our great hospital ships. We developed from scratch the largest and most advanced testing system anywhere in the world. America has tested more than every country in Europe put together, and more than every nation in the western hemisphere combined, think of that. We have conducted 40 million more tests than the next closest nation, which is India. We developed a wide array of effective treatments, including a powerful antibody treatment known as convalescent plasma. You saw that? On Sunday night when we announced it. That will save thousands and thousands of lives. Thanks to advances, we have pioneered the fatality rates. And you look at it, and you look at the numbers, it has been reduced by 80% since April. 80%.
The United States has among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country anywhere in the world. The European Union’s case fatality rate is nearly three times higher than ours, but you don’t hear that. They do not write about that. They don’t want to write about that. They do not want you to know those things. Altogether, the nations of Europe have experienced a 30% greater increase in excess mortality than the United States. Think of that.
We enacted the largest package of financial relief in American history. Thanks to our Paycheck Protection Program, we have saved or supported more than 50 million American jobs. That’s one of the reasons that we’re advancing so rapidly with our economy. Great job. As a result, we have seen the smallest economic contraction of any major western nation. And we are recovering at a much faster rate than anybody. Over the past three months, we have gained over nine million jobs, and that’s a record in the history of our country.
Unfortunately, from the beginning, our opponents have shown themselves capable of nothing but a partisan ability to criticize. When I took bold action to issue a travel ban on China, very early indeed, Joe called it hysterical and xenophobic. And then I introduced a ban on Europe, very early again. If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died. Instead of following the science, Joe Biden wants to inflict a painful shutdown on the entire country. His shutdown would inflict unthinkable and lasting harm on our nation’s children, families, and citizens of all backgrounds. The cost of the Biden shutdown would be measured in increased drug overdoses, depression, alcohol addiction, suicides, heart attacks, economic devastation, job loss, and much more. Joe Biden’s plan is not a solution to the virus, but rather it’s a surrender to the virus.
My administration has a very different approach. To save as many lives as possible, we are focusing on the science, the facts, and the data. We are aggressively sheltering those at highest risk, especially the elderly, while allowing lower-risk Americans to safely return to work and to school. And we want to see so many of those great states be opened by Democrats. We want them to be open. They have to be open. They have to get back to work. They have to get back to work, and they have to get back to school.
Most importantly, we are marshaling America’s scientific genius to produce a vaccine in record time. Under Operation Warp Speed, we have three different vaccines in the final stage of trials right now, years ahead of what has been achieved before. Nobody thought it could be done this fast. Normally it would be years, and we did it in a matter of a few months. We are producing them in advance so that hundreds of millions of doses will be quickly available. We will have a safe and effective vaccine this year, and together we will crush the virus.
At the Democrat convention, you barely heard a word about their agenda. But that is not because they don’t have one. It is because their agenda is the most extreme set of proposals ever put forward by a major party nominee. Joe Biden may claim he is an ally of the light. But when it comes to his agenda, Biden wants to keep us completely in the dark. He doesn’t have a clue. He has pledged a $4 trillion tax hike on almost all American families, which would totally collapse our rapidly improving economy, and once again record stock markets that we have right now, will also collapse. That means your 401(k)s, that means all of the stocks that you have.
On the other hand, just as I did in my first term, I will cut taxes even further for hardworking moms and dads. I will not raise taxes, I will cut them, and very substantially. And we will also provide tax credits to bring jobs out of China, back to America. And we will impose tariffs on any company that leaves America to produce jobs overseas. We will make sure our companies and jobs stay in our country, as I’ve already been doing for quite some time if you’ve noticed. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the USA.
Biden has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale, and natural gas, laying waste to the economies of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Colorado, and New Mexico, destroying those states, absolutely destroying those states and others. Millions of jobs will be lost, and energy prices will soar. These same policies led to crippling power outages in California just last week. Everybody saw that. Tremendous power outage. Nobody’s seen anything like it, but we saw it last week in California. How can Joe Biden claim to be an ally of the light when his own party can’t even keep the lights on?
Joe Biden’s campaign has even published a 110-page policy platform. You can’t get away from this, co-authored with far-left senator, crazy Bernie Sanders. The Biden-Bernie manifesto[ calls for suspending all removals of illegal aliens, implementing nationwide catch-and-release, and providing illegal aliens with free taxpayer-funded lawyers. Everybody gets a lawyer. Come over to our country, everybody has a lawyer. We have a lawyer for you. That’s all we need, is more lawyers.
Joe Biden recently raised his hand on the debate stage, and promised he was going to give it away your health care dollars to illegal immigrants, which is going to bring massive number of immigrants into our country. Massive numbers will pour into our country in order to get all the goodies that they want to give. Education, health care, everything. He also supports deadly sanctuary cities that protect criminal aliens. He promised to end national security travel bans from jihadist nations, and he pledged to increase refugee admissions by 700%. This is in the manifesto. The Biden plan would eliminate America’s borders in the middle of a global pandemic. And he is even talking about taking the wall down. How about that?
Biden also vowed to oppose school choice, and close all charter schools, ripping away the ladder of opportunity for Black and Hispanic children. In a second term, I will expand charter schools, and provide school choice to every family in America. And we will always treat our teachers with the tremendous respect that they deserve. Great people. Great, great people.
Joe Biden claims he has empathy for the vulnerable, yet the party he leads supports the extreme late-term abortion of defenseless babies, right up until the moment of birth. Democrat leaders talk about moral decency, but they have no problem with stopping a baby’s beating heart in the ninth month of pregnancy. Democrat politicians refuse to protect innocent life, and then they lecture us about morality and saving America’s soul. Tonight, we proudly declare that all children, born and unborn, have a God-given right to life.
During the Democrat convention, the words, under God, were removed from the Pledge of Allegiance. Not once, but twice. We will never do that. But the fact is, this is where they’re coming from. Like it or not, this is where they’re coming from. If the Left gains power, they will demolish the suburbs, confiscate your guns, and appoint justices who will wipe away your Second Amendment and other constitutional freedoms. Biden is a Trojan horse for socialism. If Joe Biden doesn’t have the strength to stand up to wild-eyed Marxists like Bernie Sanders and his fellow radicals, and there are many, there are many. We see them all the time. It is incredible, actually. Then how is he ever going to stand up for you? He’s not.
The most dangerous aspect of the Biden platform is the attack on public safety. The Biden-Bernie manifesto calls for abolishing cash bail, immediately releasing 400000 criminals onto the streets and into your neighborhoods. When asked if he supports cutting police funding, Joe Biden replied, “Yes, absolutely.” When Congresswoman Ilhan Omar called the Minneapolis Police Department, “A cancer that is rotten to the root,” Biden would not disavow her support and reject her endorsement. He proudly displayed it shortly later on his website, displayed it in big letters.
Make no mistake, if you give power to Joe Biden, the Radical Left will defund police departments all across America. They will pass federal legislation to reduce law enforcement nationwide. They will make every city look like Democrat-run Portland, Oregon. No one will be safe in Biden’s America. My administration will always stand with the men and women of law enforcement. Every day, police officers risk their lives to keep us safe, and every year many sacrifice their lives in the line of duty.
One of these incredible Americans was Detective Miosotis Familia. She was part of a team of American heroes called the NYPD, or New York’s finest, who I was very proud to get their endorsement just the other day. Great people. If they were allowed to do their job, you’d have no crime in New York. Rudy Giuliani knows that better than anybody. Thank you, Rudy. Three years ago on the Fourth of July weekend, Detective Familia was on duty in her vehicle when she was ambushed just after midnight, and murdered by a monster who hated her purely for wearing the badge. Detective Familia was a single mom. She recently asked for the night shift so she could spend more time with her kids.
Two years ago, I stood in front of the US Capitol alongside those beautiful children, and held their grandmother’s hand as they mourned their terrible loss. And we honored Detective Familia’s extraordinary life. It was extraordinary. Detective Familia’s three children are with us this evening. Genesis, Peter, Delilah, we are so grateful to have you here tonight. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
I promise you that we will treasure your mom in our memories forever. We must remember that the overwhelming majority of police officers in this country, and that’s the overwhelming majority, are noble, courageous, and honorable. We have to give law enforcement, our police, back their power. They are afraid to act. They are afraid to lose their pension. They are afraid to lose their jobs. And by being afraid, they are not able to do the job that they so desperately want to do for you. And those who suffer most are the great people who they protect, and who they want to protect at an even higher level. When there is police misconduct, the justice system must hold wrongdoers fully and completely accountable, and it will. But when we can never have a situation where things are going on as they are today, we must never allow mob rule. We can never allow mob rule.
In the strongest possible terms, the Republican Party condemns the rioting, looting, arson, and violence we have seen in Democrat-run cities all, like Kenosha, Minneapolis, Portland, Chicago, and New York, and many others, Democrat-run. There is violence and danger in the streets of many Democrat-run cities throughout America. This problem could easily be fixed if they wanted to. Just call, we’re ready to go in. We will take care of your problem in a matter of hours. Just call. We have to wait for the call. It is too bad we have to, but we have to wait for the call. We must always have law and order. All federal crimes are being investigated, prosecuted, and punished to the fullest extent of the law. When the anarchists started ripping down our statues and monuments right outside, I signed an order immediately, 10 years in prison, and it was a miracle. It all stopped. No more statues. They said, “That’s just too long,” as they looked at a statue. “I think we’ll rip it down.” Then they said, “10 years in prison? I think that is too long. Let’s go home.”
During their convention, Joe Biden and his supporters remained completely silent about the rioters and criminals spreading mayhem in Democrat-run cities. They never even mentioned it during their entire convention. Never once mentioned. Now, they are starting to mention it because their poll numbers are going down like a rock in water. It is too late, Joe. In the face of left-wing anarchy and mayhem in Minneapolis, Chicago, and other cities, Joe Biden’s campaign did not condemn it. They donated to it. At least 13 members of Joe Biden’s campaign staff donated to a fund to bailout vandals, arsonists, anarchists, looters, and rioters from jail.
Here tonight is the grieving family of retired police captain, David Dorn, a 38-year veteran of the St. Louis Police Department, a great man and a highly respected man by all. In June, Captain Dorn was shot and killed as he tried to protect a store from rioters and looters, or as the Democrats would call them, peaceful protesters. They call them peaceful protesters. We are honored to be joined tonight by his wonderful wife Ann, and beloved family members, Brian and Kielen. To each of you, we will never forget the heroic legacy of Captain. David Dorn. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much. Great man.
As long as I am president, we will defend the absolute right of every American citizen to live in security, dignity, and peace. If the Democrat Party wants to stand with anarchists, agitators, rioters, looters, and flag burners, that is up to them. But I as your president, will not be part of it. The Republican Party will remain the voice of the patriotic heroes who keep America safe and salute the American flag.
Last year, over 1000 African-Americans were murdered as a result of violent crime in just four Democrat-run cities. The top 10 most dangerous cities in the country are run by Democrats, and have been for many decades. Thousands more African-Americans are victim and victims of violent crime in these communities. Joe Biden and the Left ignore these American victims. I never will. If the radical Left takes power, they will apply their disastrous policies to every town, city, and suburb in America. Just imagine if the so-called peaceful demonstrators in the streets were in charge of every lever of power in the US government. Just think of that.
Liberal politician’s claim to be concerned about the strength of American institutions. But who exactly is attacking them? Who is hiring the radical professors, judges, and prosecutors? Who is trying to abolish immigration enforcement and establish speech codes designed to muzzle dissent? In every case, the attacks on American institutions are being waged by Radical Left. Always remember, they are coming after me because I am fighting for you. That is what is happening. And it has been going on from before I even got elected. And remember this, they spied on my campaign, and they got caught. Let’s see now what happens.
We must reclaim our independence from the Left’s repressive mandates. Americans are exhausted, trying to keep up with the latest lists of approved words and phrases, and the ever more restrictive political decrees. Many things have a different name now, and the rules are constantly changing. The goal of Cancel Culture is to make Americans live in fear of being fired, expelled, shamed, humiliated, and driven from society as we know it. The far-left wants to coerce you into saying what you know to be false, and scare you out of saying what you know to be true. Very sad. But on November 3rd, you can send them a very thundering message they will never forget.
Joe Biden is weak. He takes his marching orders from liberal hypocrites who drive their cities into the ground while fleeing from the scene of the wreckage. The same liberals want to eliminate school choice while they enroll their children into the finest private schools in the land. They want to open our borders while living in walled off compounds and communities and the best neighborhoods in the world. They want to defund the police while they have armed guards for themselves. This November, we must turn the page forever on this failed political class. The fact is, I am here.
What is the name of that building? But I’ll say it differently, the fact is, we are here and they are not. To me, one of the most beautiful buildings anywhere in the world is not a building, it is a home, as far as I am concerned. It’s not even a house, it is a home. It’s a wonderful place with an incredible history. But it is all because of you. Together, we will write the next chapter of the great American story. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. We will expand opportunity zones. Thank you, Tim Scott. Bring home our medical supply chains. And we will end our resilience for banned things. We will go right after China. We will not rely on them one bit. We are taking our business out of China. We are bringing it home. We want our business to come home.
We will continue to reduce taxes and regulations at levels not seen before. We will create 10 million jobs in the next 10 months. And it will be higher than that. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and surge federal prosecutors into high-crime communities. We will ban deadly sanctuary cities, and ensure federal health care is protected for American citizens, not for illegal aliens.
We will have strong borders. And I’ve said for years, without borders, we don’t have a country. We don’t have a country. Strike down terrorists who threaten our people, and keep America out of endless and costly foreign wars. We will appoint prosecutors, judges, justices who believe in enforcing the law, not enforcing their own political agenda, which is illegal. We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. We will uphold your religious liberty, and defend your Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. And if we don’t win, your Second Amendment doesn’t have a chance. I can tell you that. I have totally protected it.
We will protect Medicare and Social Security. We will always and very strongly protect patients with pre-existing conditions, and that is a pledge from the entire Republican Party. Thank you, Kevin. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, and further reduce the cost of prescription drugs and health insurance premiums. They are coming way down. We will greatly expand energy development, continuing to remain the number-one in the world, and keep America energy independent. And for those of you that still drive a car, look how low your gasoline bill is. You haven’t seen that in a long time.
We will win the race to 5G, and build the world’s best cyber and missile defense, already under construction. We will fully restore patriotic education to our schools and always protect. We will always, always protect free speech on college campuses. And we put a very big penalty in, if they do anything having to do with your free speech, colleges have to pay a tremendous, tremendous financial penalty. And again, it is amazing how open they have been lately.
We will launch a new age of American ambition in space. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to plant its beautiful flag on Mars. This is the unifying national agenda that will bring our country together. So tonight, I say to all Americans, this is the most important election in the history of our country. There has never been such a difference between two parties or two individuals in ideology, philosophy, or vision than there is right now.
Our opponents believe that America is a depraved nation. We want our sons and daughters to know the truth. America is the greatest and most exceptional nation in the history of the world. Our country wasn’t built by Cancel Culture, speech codes, and crushing conformity. We are not a nation of timid spirits. We are a nation of fierce, proud, and independent American patriots. We are a nation of pilgrims, pioneers, adventurers, explorers, and trailblazers who refuse to be tied down, held back, or in any way reigned in. Americans have steel in their spines, grit in their souls, and fire in their hearts. There is no one like us on Earth.
I want every child in America to know that you are part of the most exciting and incredible adventure in human history. No matter where your family comes from, no matter your background in America, anyone can rise. With hard work, devotion, and drive, you can reach any goal and achieve every ambition. Our American ancestors sailed across the perilous ocean to build a new life on a new continent. They braved the freezing winters, crossed the raging rivers, scaled the rocky peaks, trekked the dangerous forests, and worked from dawn till dusk. These pioneers didn’t have money. They didn’t have fame. But they had each other. They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. When opportunity beckoned, they picked up their bibles, packed up their belongings, climbed into their covered wagons, and set out West for the next adventure. Ranchers and miners, cowboys and sheriffs, farmers and settlers. They pressed on past the Mississippi to stake a claim in the wild frontier. Legends were born. Wyatt Earp, Annie Oakley, Davy Crockett, and Buffalo Bill. Americans built their beautiful homesteads on the open range. Soon, they had churches and communities, then towns, and with time, great centers of industry and commerce. That is who they were.
Americans build their future, we don’t tear down our past. We are the nation that won a revolution, toppled tyranny and fascism, and delivered millions into freedom. We laid down the railroads, built the great ships, raised up the skyscrapers, revolutionized industry, and sparked a new age of scientific discovery. We set the trends in art and music, radio and film, sport and literature. And we did it all with style and confidence and flair, because that is who we are.
Whenever our way of life was threatened, our heroes answered the call. From Yorktown to Gettysburg, from Normandy to Iwo Jima, American patriots raced into cannon blasts, bullets, and bayonets to rescue American liberty. They had no fear. But America did not stop there. We looked into the sky and kept pressing onward. We built a six-million-pound rocket and launched it thousands of miles into space. We did it so two brave patriots could stand tall and salute our wondrous American flag planted on the face of the moon. For America, nothing is impossible.
Over the next four years, we will prove worthy of this magnificent legacy. We will reach stunning new heights, and we will show that the world for America there is a dream, and it is not beyond your reach. Together, we are unstoppable. Together, we are unbeatable. Because together, we are the proud citizens of the United States of America.
On November 3rd, we will make America safer. We will make America stronger. We will make America prouder. And we will make America greater than ever before. I am very proud to be the nominee of the Republican Party.
I love you all. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Did you see the crowd outside? I don’t know if they report it. I don’t think they do. You know who they are, right? Fake news. No, I don’t know that they report it. That is an unbelievable, thousands and thousands of people lined up so far. It was very important for me to come to North Carolina because we wanted to be here, but your governor didn’t allow it because he’s in a shutdown mode along with a lot of other Democrat governors. And it’s too bad, but I want to thank Kirby and the incredible people I just met, farmers and wonderful business people and really, humanitarians, they’re incredible people. I’m thrilled to be at the Flavor First Growers and Packers facility here in the great state of North Carolina.
Joe Biden was supposed to be in Wisconsin, but he never showed up. I showed up. In fact, we did a count, our vote we did here in North Carolina. We did it in Charlotte a little while ago. I was there, it was a great, exciting moment to actually. Today we’re here to celebrate the incredible work of the farmers and faith leaders and amazing volunteers who are caring for their community, through our highly successful farmers, to families food box program. I just looked at a couple of those boxes and I said, “I want to have something right now.” But they thought it would be inappropriate because I was coming up to speak. But beautiful looking stuff. We’re grateful to be joined by Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, and somebody that you know, Ivanka Trump. And Ivanka has been a big supporter of this project and this whole program.
And it’s made people that were looking for food happy and it’s made the farmers happy. With all of us, we’re just thrilled to be here. You have a representative named Ted Budd. Where’s Ted Budd? Where’s Ted? Ted, thank you very much. What a great warrior you’ve been, Ted Budd, Congressmen. Thank you Ted very much, I appreciate it. And where’s Madison, where is Madison? Is he here? If I had a face like that, I would have been president 20 years ago. If I looked like him, I would have been president 20 years ago, Kirby. Madison Cawthorn, and a real star. You’re going to be a star of the party. Thank you very much. What a great guy, great guy. He was in the oval office, I didn’t want my picture with him because he looks too good. Great. Proud of you too. And I hear you doing really well over there. Thank you very much, Madison. Also want to thank Mitch Gaither and Brian Rose, of Flavor First Growers, we appreciate you guys. Thank you. Thank you. And executive director of Baptists on Mission, Richard Brunson and many local leaders are here. Where’s Richard?
Behind you.
Oh, Richard, thank you very much. Great job. That’s fantastic. Thank you Richard. When the China virus struck our nation, many farmers had no place to send their crops or livestock. At the same time, families across the country were in need of groceries, they wanted to eat well. And next year they’re going to be eating better than ever before, because we’re going to have a tremendous year. I’ll tell you, economically, you see the numbers coming in and you see even the employment numbers coming in. In the last quarter, more people hired, more jobs than any over 9 million jobs than at any quarter ever before, it’s a record. We’re going to have a great year, we’re going to have a great quarter, but we’re going to have a great year. That’s why we launched the Farmers to Families Food Box program. Through this program, the Department of Agriculture is purchasing food from farmers, then local distributors pack and deliver the boxes and families in need get it, and they get to eat very well.
We’re tremendously grateful for the 185 employees here at this facility who have packed roughly 7,000 boxes a week. That’s not bad Kirby, right? 7,000 boxes a week is a lot of boxes. Thanks as well to the incredible volunteers at Baptist Sun Mission, who shipped boxes to over 200 pickup locations all across your great state. With your help in just three months, we’ve delivered over 1 billion pounds of food, providing more than 100 million meals to Americans most in need. And this is a program that just got started and they’re already a soon as I saw it, I saw one line that was hungry. And one line that had so much food, they had to dispose of it, the farmers.
I said, “Let’s put them together.” And with Sonny and with all of the people that worked on it and Ivanka’s strong backing, we got it done in literally a week, right? We got it done. And I think might’ve even been less than a week. That’s not bad. Today, I’m proud to announce that we will provide an additional $1 billion to fund the Farmers to Families Food Box programs that’s worked out so well. It’s worked out so well.
In our fight against the China virus, we’ve launched the greatest industrial mobilization. This is the greatest industrial mobilization, all of the things that we’ve done to, to take on this horrible, horrible scourge that’s come in. To take on this horrible, terrible plague, I call it sometimes. We didn’t deserve this, we didn’t deserve this. And they could have stopped it. And we had just signed an incredible trade deal with China. In fact, last week, Sonny was telling me the largest order of corn in the history of our country, twice largest order of soybeans in history. But I feel so differently because the ink wasn’t even dry on that trade deal when we got hit with the China virus, I feel very differently about it. In our fight against the virus, we’ve launched this mobilization. And it’s the biggest since World War Two.
Biggest and most successful too. You’ll be hearing that on Thursday night, I’m going to be talking about it because what we’ve done is incredible. You would have had a situation, if you looked at the lives saved, if we didn’t close down, now reopened and we reopened. Problem is your governor doesn’t want to reopen. He wants to keep it shut down and you can’t do that, because there’s a lot of bad statistics on the other side, shut downs cause problems too, with suicide and depression and loss of jobs and loss of a lot of other things. So we have to get your state open. We have to get numerous states open that are run by Democrats, because I really believe on November 4th, they’re all going to be open. It’s going to be a miracle. We got to get Pennsylvania open.
Now we have Pennsylvania, we have here, we have others. And well, Wisconsin is another one, right? All Democrats. They want to keep it close as long as possible, right up until the election, then they’re going to open it. But you know what? The numbers are so good anyway, that they are having a hard time. They’re having a little hard time with this whole situation. But yesterday, I announced that the FDA had issued an emergency use authorization for convalescent plasma. You probably saw that, which is proven to be an incredible reducer. It’s going to reduce mortality by at least 35%, could be much more than that. We’ll see the final numbers, but it could be even higher than that. And we did remdesivir and lots of other things, we’re going to be talking about it on Thursday nights. I hope you’re all going to be listening. Because the job that the FDA has done and the approval process has gone far faster than it would have ever gone under any other administration.
I’m talking about the saving of years, the saving of years. Through operation Warp Speed, three vaccine candidates are in the final phase of clinical tests. Normally that would take two years to get there, maybe longer. And we expect to have a vaccine available before the end of the year, and maybe a lot sooner than that. To care for hard working Americans, we continue to deliver unprecedented financial support. We passed the largest relief package in history. Altogether, we’ve delivered over $3 trillion in economic assistance to the American people, and the American farmer has done very well. I never hear any complaints from the American farmer. I got $28 billion from China, I said, “You targeted our farmers.”-
[inaudible 00:09:00] they targeted. I said, “You targeted our farmers in Iowa, in North Carolina, all over the country, Nebraska, you targeted our farmers. You can’t do that.”
So I put big tariffs on goods coming in from China. And out of the many, many tens of billions of dollars that we took in, never happened to China before. They had the worst year they’ve had, last year before the plague, they had the worst year they’ve had in 67 years. So this never happened to them. I don’t want that to happen, I don’t want them to have a bad year, but nobody has ripped off our country more than them over the last 25 or 30 years.
And we gave that money directly to the farmers, through Sonny, Department of Agriculture, we gave a total of $28 billion to farmers, and they’re not complaining, I’ll tell you, they’re not complaining. Nobody else, I can tell it to the farmers, I’ll tell it to the country, I’m very proud of it, nobody else, no other president would have done that. Even Sonny was surprised when I called him, I said, “Let’s do this.” Sonny said, “That’s never been done before,” but Sonny was okay with it, I will tell you.
Thank you, darling, thank you very much.
Through the paycheck protection program, we’ve saved 5 million small businesses and 50 million jobs. This includes nearly 130,000 small businesses and 1.2 million jobs right here in North Carolina. And you’re ready to open up. You got to tell the… And you’re ready to play football. You got to play football. You got to play football.
We’ve delivered over $8 billion in economic impact payments directly to 5 million North Carolina families. And we provided a total of $19 billion to cover farmers’ losses due to the pandemic. And then we added another, we got it up to a total, the total was 28, and I guess we’re now up to 34 or close to 34. Nobody’s ever seen numbers like this. And it was really by putting tariffs on a place that treated us very, very badly.
So it was 19 billion. It was 12 billion. It started off at 12, went to 19, went to 28. And I think it’s going to go probably up to about 34 billion. So our farmers will never be tormented again. We’ve slashed regulations to cut the death tax.
Now the death tax is a big deal. So if you have a farm or a business like [Kirby 00:00:11:25], like your business, and you want to leave it to your beautiful family, which I just met, and they have to go out and get a big mortgage from a bank because they have big estate taxes, call it whatever you want, we call it a death tax. They don’t have to do that anymore, Kirby. That’s pretty good. Right? So you’ll be looking down and you’ll be saying, “They’re happy.”
They won’t be losing the business or losing the farm, but we’ve slashed regulations, cut the death tax, the estate tax, got rid of it for the small farms and businesses. Provided direct assistance to farmers unfairly targeted by China and secured fair and reciprocal trade deals to boost American agricultural import and exports.
You know, we have a very unfair situation going because some of our allies are much tougher than our enemies, if you want to know the truth, they put big tariffs on so you can’t get your product in. You can’t get it in. And I said, “That’s okay, you can put the tariffs in, but we’re going to put the same tariff on you.” And it’s amazing how quickly those tariffs come off, it’s really actually incredible to watch it.
Already, the great American comeback is very much underway. So we’ve added the jobs in the United States. If you look at the stock market, it’s just about, in fact NASDAQ just set a new record, and it’s over a period of three weeks, it’s actually, I think, broken the record 14 or 15 times. And you’re going to see something with Dow, because you watch Dow, and you’re looking at the numbers, and we’re very close to breaking those records. When I left this morning, the stock market was up almost 300 points, we’ll see where it is. And that’s a leading indicator, that’s great stuff. That’s your 401ks, that’s your stocks.
And the economy is quickly following wages are up nearly 5%. Retail spending is fully recovered and is at an all time high. Can you imagine that retail spending is now at a higher level than it was prior to the plague coming in? Can you believe that? I mean, who would think that? And home builder optimism is at a record high, and prices are going up, and homes are being built, and it’s an incredible thing that’s happening.
And when we get rid of this virus, which will happen and it will happen sooner than people think, and that’s with the vaccines, but even without the vaccines, it’s happening. During this time of trial, we’ve seen once again that the strength of our nation lies in patriotic citizens like everyone here today, I’ve met so many of you, each time you deliver a food box to a family, you show them that in this country, no one is forgotten.
Remember, I used to talk about the forgotten men and women of our country. And I still talk about them. You’ll be hearing about them on Thursday night, they are no longer forgotten. You’ve become a very, very important voice. Very important voice.
They used to say, “Who are these people?” I said, “They’re the forgotten people. They work hard. They work so hard, and they’re the forgotten people.” Not any longer, they’re not. The Democrats are trying to find them, but they’re not being too good to the Democrats, I will say that.
But together we’ll overcome the virus, and America will come back bigger, and better, and more united than ever before. We’ll be stronger. Or military is more powerful now than it ever was. We rebuilt entirely our military, $2.5 trillion.
So I just want to thank you for the support. North Carolina, you’ve been incredible from, the first day I came to North Carolina. I was here many times before I did this political thing, but will tell you this was a great experience dealing with the people of North Carolina. And that’s why I felt I had an obligation to be here today, because we said we’re going to have our convention here. And it was because of your governor that we had to move things around, but we did already, we had a very important part of it in Charlotte. So I went there and I wanted to stop here and congratulate you on your success. And it’s a great honor.
And I’ll introduce Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture. Thank you all very much. It’s a great honor. Thank you.
Mr. President, as you saw those throngs of people lining both sides of the road from the airport, all the way to Mills River here, those were part of those forgotten people that voted for you for 2016, and I’ve gotten better news for you, they and many others are going to vote for you for four more years in 2020.
Because they understand under your administration, they’ve not been forgotten, and this program is a great example of that. I remember very well when you called me early one morning… When do you sleep? I mean, it was early one morning. Or if you sleep, I don’t know.
But anyway, the President said, “What’s all this food that’s being destroyed? Milk being dumped, vegetables being plowed under, do we have enough food?” I said, “Mr. President, we have enough food.” He said, “Well, what’s the problem?” I said, “Well, restaurants shutting down, it’s misaligned, it’s not in the right places.” He said, “Well, what are you going to do about it?”
And you know, when the President… I love your speed, Mr. President, you’re a man with a business speed, not a government speed.
And I figure if I want to continue working for you, I better get a business speed, too. So that’s what we did. And I’m so proud of the people at USDA for designing this program in a very short period of time, a record period of time. Kirby said it right, typically a contract like this would have taken… the COVID would have been over by the time we got it done, but we got it done because I knew you wanted to take care of those forgotten people, the farmers who were suffering, the distributors who were suffering with their market loss. But most importantly, those people whose jobs have been going away, and they were shut down, and lost their jobs, and their families needed food. That’s who you were thinking about. And that’s why we wanted to get it done quickly.
I saw last week, some of you may have watched, I didn’t watch much, but I read little bit about it, we were trying to talk about personalities in politics. Let me tell you what, people don’t vote for personalities. They’ll vote for policies and people that get it done, like Donald J. Trump. You know? That’s what people want. They want somebody who can get it done. They want a Decider in Chief.
… want somebody who can get it done. They want a decider in chief. And if you’ve ever sat in that office, this man can decide. And when he decides, you better move out and get it done along with him. So I’m proud, I’m honored to serve as your Secretary of Agriculture in this arena and to know this program that you’ve just added, it was a $3 billion program. You just authorized another billion dollars for the hungry people of this country. And to keep our farmers there and we’ve never seen an outpouring of compassion like that for people who matter, because people matter to you. And that’s what’s important to me. And that’s what’s going to continue to happen, four more years if America gets out and votes of this man, Donald J. Trump.
Four more years, four more years.
I have someone else that also believes in this program, has been a staunch advocate from the very beginning, who’s been a real encourager. She’s got an inside track with the President, and because she loves people as well and understands with compassion, what a awesome opportunity this is to do the right thing for all the right reasons. And I want to ask his senior advisor, Ivanka Trump, to come up and tell you about her thoughts.
Thank you, Mr. Secretary, and thank you all for being here. I love North Carolina. And I promised my sister-in-law I would say that with particular emphasis, because Laura Trump has told me more about this amazing state than I think just about anywhere. I may know more about North Carolina than I do about New York and I’ve lived there most of my life, so, I love you all. It’s great to be here. Kirby, thank you for hosting us at this top of the line facility and showing us what you do and your hundreds of employees, how they feed America, to Baptists on the mission and all of the incredible volunteers who join us here today, including Executor Director, Richard Brunson. Thank you so much.
So Richard and I, and many of you volunteers have actually met one time before in the wake of Hurricane Florence. I came here to North Carolina and I got to see firsthand the unbelievable work being done to take care of people in a time of need, which is not dissimilar to what this program was designed and intends to do and has been doing.
The President mentioned the enormous success, 70 million boxes of fresh produce, milk, dairy, delivered from our local family farms to those who are vulnerable across the country while at the exact same time saving countless jobs in terms of the distribution network, the distributors, like this great facility, that was having to lay people off because the supply chain was severed. So this is truly a win-win-win program. And in government, you can’t say that about a lot of government programs, especially one of this scale that was mobilized so quickly. So just an enormous success.
I was recently in Pittsburgh and I was talking with a gentleman at the Church of God in Christ, and he’s a distributor. His name was Zach. And he was sharing with me the fact that to his business, this program was a miracle, because as I said, it works for everyone. He had saved his whole payroll because he got one of the grants for Farmers to Family Food Box, incorporating American farmers and ranchers and powering our workforce and serving families and need is about as good as it gets. This is a historic investment. USDA has never done anything like this. So this is a brand new program. And with this $1 billion addition, we’re going to keep it going. And we’re going to keep feeding those in need until this pandemic passes.
One of the amazing things and there are a lot of faith-based organizations who are involved in this program and in the distribution, and I visited one in Washington, D.C. The number of people who came up to me, parents who were collecting these boxes for their children, and they had tears in their eyes, because not only did they know that their children and their family would eat that night and that week, but amazingly, they were telling me stories about how they’ve never experienced the produce that was being given to them in these boxes. They’d never had anything this fresh before and this nutritious before. So the double benefit of being able to feed their families with the amazing products that you all grow on your farms, it was extraordinary. It was extraordinary.
There was a Virginia Farmer who, when we first launched this program just weeks ago was at the White House and said to you, Mr. President, and I quote, This country relies on these farmers and ranchers to do every day, to do what they do every day. So I want to personally, thank you, Mr. President, and all of you have worked so hard to make sure these farm families stay whole and that the American people never have to worry about running out of food. That’s what this program does. Thank you all.
And now for our final speaker, I’d like to turn it over to Richard Brunson, the executive director of Baptists on Mission who will thank his volunteers. And I’d like to also give a shout out to Chief Sneed of the Eastern Band of Cherokees who’s here. Hi, Chief, thank you for being here. Thank you for all that you do as well.
Thank you, Ivanka and Chief. Thank you for being. The Eastern Band of the Cherokee are also get about 900 boxes every week through the Farmers to Family Food Box program, as well as people all over Western North Carolina. And I’m so thankful for that program. I used to take food on the table for granted. Well, I don’t anymore. And there’s a verse I think about a lot, especially after a disaster and it’s Romans 8:28. And it says “In all things, God works for good.” God is a good God. And God’s always working for good. And God calls us to work for good in the lives of hurting people.
Because of the COVID crisis, many families across our state are struggling. They’re struggling to meet basic needs, including putting food on the table. Being involved in the Farmers to Families Food Box program has given me a much greater appreciation for our farmers and what they do to feed us all. They’re some of our most essential workers, and I’m also incredibly thankful for the USDA and the work they’re doing to help farmers and to help feed hungry people across our state and our nation. As one of the faith-based groups involved in this program, I hear many stories about the food boxes and the difference that they’re making in people’s lives. A pastor recently told me about the blessing he had helping put food on the table of those greatly effected by COVID-19. Those that are shut-ins. Those that are economically challenged. Those who’ve lost a job. Those who are suffering in so many different ways.
A waitress who had lost her job, grandparents raising their grandchildren were able to feed their family because of this program. Many who are struggling are those who don’t like asking for help, but they needed it during these times. There are also stories of individuals who don’t have much, but they all share what they have by taking that precious box and sharing it with somebody else that they know needs it. For many, it’s not just a box of food. It’s not just a box of produce. It’s a box of hope and love.
Well, there’s so many people to thank for making this program work for millions of people. Thank you farmers who are here today. Thank you volunteers who were here that help distribute these boxes in 200 different places across our state and mostly churches, but also community centers and-
… and mostly churches, but also community centers and senior centers are getting these boxes and passing them out in their communities. Thank you those volunteers. Thank you USDA. Thank you Secretary Perdue. Thank you Advisor to the President, Ivanka Trump. And thank you Mr. President.
Mr. President, they love you here and they love this program. Why don’t you close this out?
Well, I want to also thank Mark Meadows and Deb for being incredible. You have somebody very capable going to be helping you out. But Mark has been a fantastic chief. We call them, chief of staff, we call him chief. But he’s done a great job and I appreciate it. And he loves your state. He loves your state, comes from your state, and he loves your state. Again, we will never take the word God out of our pledge of allegiance. As you saw, recently happened during the DNC caucus twice, at least twice. And that’ll never happen. And I just want to, again, thank all of the people of North Carolina very much. You’re very special people-
We love you Trump.
… who’ve had great. Thank you. And I will be seeing you very soon. November 3rd. I think it’s the most important election this country has ever had. November 3rd, get out and vote. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
Hello. Hello, everyone. Hi. Can you hear me? Can you hear me over there? I want to thank you very much. You’ve been incredible. This state has been incredible. That’s one of the reasons… You know you have a governor that shut it down. You’re in a shutdown. Right? But I want to just thank … This is some little gathering. This is just from the heart. This is from the heart. You know we worked out a program where all of the food that was being wasted goes to people, and helping people during the pandemic, and you people produce the food like nobody produces the food, so we took care of it.
Then we’re actually doing today a $1 billion program that’s going to help everybody. It’s going to be great. You know we’re hitting new records in the stock market. We just hit new employment records for the last three months. Nine million people jobs. We reduced taxes. We reduced regulations. It’s all coming back so fast, and you’ll see it. The pandemic goes away. The vaccines are going to be, I believe, announced very soon. Yesterday night, we did it last evening, we announced a very, very big therapeutic, and the therapeutic it’s something that really has been an incredible thing.
This would have taken, I wouldn’t say years, maybe not many years, but it would have taken a long time to have gotten it approved. We got the FDA to do it very quickly. So now we have another therapeutic, and it’s really been effective. So I just want to think convalescent plasma, but you know that, convalescent plasma, and hopefully you won’t need it. But we have it, and remdesivir, and so many others. So many others are coming out now. The job they’ve done, the job our country has done, has been amazing. We’ll be talking about it on Thursday evening. Is anybody going to be watching television on Thursday evening? Right?
So we’ll be talking because really the job that we’ve done is incredible. It’s incredible, and none of us get any credit for it, and that’s okay. As long as we have the end result, and the end result is we have to make people safe. We have to make our country safe. We have to build up our military, and now it’s at a level that it’s never been at before. We’ve rebuilt our entire military. The wall, as you know, will soon be finished, and our border is secure. I heard somebody on the other side, “We want to tear down the wall.” Do you believe this? Tear down the wall.
They want people, they’ll say, “Let the people come in illegally. Let them come through.” We can’t do that. We have a great country. We are going to be in a position … As you know, prior to the plague coming in from China, we did numbers the likes of which have never been seen. Our employment numbers, every number, stock market. Now you look at it today, the stock market is just about set to break the all-time record, your 401(k)s. All of the things that we’re doing, and to me that’s like a leading indicator. Everything’s following. The economy’s going to come back. Next year we’re going to have one of the best years economically and in other ways that we’ve ever had before.
So watch on Thursday night. We just accepted the votes, and I guess the official acceptance is on Thursday, but we just got a great delegate count. Mark Meadows, is that right? Mark Meadows, from a wonderful state known as North Carolina. Mark Meadows, and he’s got to have a great young man taking his place. We think he’s going to do a fantastic job. But Mark has been great, our chief of staff. So I just want to thank everybody. This has been a real lovefest between North Carolina and Trump. Right? It’s been incredible. We’ve had a tremendous success here, and you’ve had … Last year you had the most successful year you ever had, and you’re going to break that record again next year. We’re going to have an incredible third quarter.
The numbers coming in, they’ve been fantastic. Again, you’re going to have a great third quarter, but you’re going to have the best year. I think you’re going to break your record from last year. We will put this horrible incident coming from China behind us, and we will have the vaccines very soon, but it’s going to be fading, and it is starting to fade. Florida’s getting much better. California is getting much better. You look at all of the different states that have been through it, and you look at our rate, and we’re going to be comparing that. You’re going to look at the tremendous success we’ve had compared to other places.
So I just want to thank all of the people from North Carolina. As you know, because of the shutdown, we wanted to have our convention here, and you have a governor that basically didn’t want to play ball. He didn’t want to do it, and by the way, Dan Forest is running and he’s great. He’s great. I think he’s going to do very well, but he’s really a terrific guy, and he’d be a terrific governor, and I hope you’re going to do it. I felt really an obligation to come here today to say hello to the people of North Carolina, and we appreciate your love, and I love you right back. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Take care of yourselves. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. We love you all. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Oklahoma loves you Mr. President.
Thank you very much.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Now if you want to really drive them crazy, you say 12 more years.
12 more years. 12 more years.
Because we caught them doing some really bad things in 2016. Let’s see what happens. We caught them doing some really bad things. We have to be very careful because they’re trying it again with this whole 80 million mail-in ballots that they’re working on, sending them out to people that didn’t ask for them, they didn’t ask, they just get them and it’s not fair and it’s not right and it’s not going to be possible to tabulate in my opinion. It’s just my opinion. We have to be very, very careful, and you have to watch. Every one of you, you have to watch. Because bad things happened last time with the spying on our campaign and that goes to Biden and that goes to Obama and we have to be very, very careful. Have to be very, very careful, and this time they’re trying to do it with the whole Post Office scam. They’ll blame it on the Post Office. You can see them setting it up. Be very careful and watch it very carefully. Because we have to win. This is the most important election in the history of our country. This is the most … For a long period of time, I would say, “Well 2016, how special was that evening? Was that one of the great …” That was one of the great evenings but we have to be very, very careful and we have to win.
Our country is counting on it. This is the biggest, this is it. Our country can go in a horrible, horrible direction or in an even greater direction and before the plague came in from China, that’s where we were going. We were going in a direction like we had never seen. The most successful economy in the history of our country, the best unemployment numbers in history for African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American, women, college students, bad students, good students, everybody. If you had a diploma, if you didn’t have a diploma, didn’t matter, you were doing well. Everybody was doing well and we were actually coming together.
You know success brings people together, maybe better than anything else. Success brings people, so many times they say we’re divided. Well we were very divided under President Obama, very divided. People have no idea how divided. They didn’t talk about it as much, they didn’t say it as much, but we were really coming together and I was speaking with Democrats all of a sudden because the success, the markets were at an all-time high and by the way, take a look at what’s happening with the markets. Take a look at your 401(k)s which you probably do every hour. Take a look at your stocks. We’re very close to breaking the record and NASDAQ has already done it. You know NASDAQ has broken the record I think 16 times already during a pandemic. Hopefully we’ll call it the final phase of the pandemic.
Biden the other day said no he’d shut it down. He’d listen to some guy say and he’d shut it down. We just broke a record on jobs, an all-time record. There’s never been three months where we’ve put more people to work, over nine million people, and again, we’re just about ready to break the all-time stock market record. I mean you look at it, we’re just about ready to do it again and what that means is everything else is going to follow. Very small on Wall Street. Everything else is going to be there, the economy is coming up very rapidly, our farmers are doing well. Our farmers are doing well because I got China to give them $28 billion because they were targeted by China. I got the farmers $28 billion, 16 and 12. That’s why. So in spite of the pandemic and our farmers did a great job in supplying food and all the difficulties during this period of time, but we’re getting ready to do things like nobody has ever seen before, but the best way to bring unity is success. Success brings unity and we were there, and then we got hit with the plague but we won’t forget that.
I just want to thank the people of North Carolina because to be honest with you, I felt an obligation to be here. You have a governor is in a total shutdown mood. I guarantee you on November 4 it will all open up, it will be fine like most Southern states. On November 4, you know these Democrat governors, they love shutdown until after the election’s over because they want to make our numbers look as bad as possible for the economy but our numbers are looking so good and frankly I used to say a V and people would say, “Well maybe not. I don’t think so.” Some would say no way. We have a super V, you’re right. It’s now looking like it’s a super V. Our automobile numbers are incredible, both used cars and brand new cars, our manufacturing number is incredible. We’re putting a lot of manufacturing jobs to work that the previous administration said you’d need a magic wand. You’d need a magic wand for manufacturing jobs, I don’t think so. I guess we had the magic wand, that’s all, but again, we’re putting them back, we’re bringing them back. But think of your life just prior to the plague coming in. It was the best it’s ever been. Your state had the best numbers they’ve ever had, ever had, by far, and we had the best employment numbers also.
We were up to 160 million jobs. We were never anywhere near that, and then we had to shut it down. We saved millions and millions of lives. We learned the enemy, we learned all about the invisible enemy, how it affects really people that are older, especially older people, the elderly, but older people with problems with heart and diabetes, with other problems, and we learned and most of the country is right now doing very, very well. They’ve done an incredible job and to have a man sitting on television the other day say, “Oh I’d shut it down. Oh I’d shut it.” Like it’s easy, shut it down. By the way, when you shut it down and we did the exact right thing, we shut it down, then we reopened and that’s what we’re doing now. We’re well into it, but … If we didn’t shut it down at that point, we would have had millions of people dead. Millions of people.
You see the numbers, the job that Mike Pence and the taskforce and all of us together have done has been incredible, what we’ve done, what we’ve achieved, whether it’s ventilators, whether it’s supplying equipment to governors that were totally ill-prepared. Many of the governors were totally ill-prepared. Nobody wants to say that but it’s supposed to work that way, federalist, it’s supposed to work that way. The governors are supposed to do it, and many of them did a fine job and many of them came back well. But most of them didn’t have the equipment that they should have had. Few of them had the ventilators which are very, very complex machines and hard to make and hard to manufacture and expensive and we’re right now making thousands of ventilators a month and we’re sending them, we have all we can use, our whole country, every state. We’re stocked, we’re stocked and I always say and I’ll say it again, there’s never been a person that needed a ventilator that didn’t get a ventilator.
Every single person that’s ever needed a ventilator, with all that you’ve heard with how much they said we didn’t have again, I took over a country whose military was depleted and whose cupboard on this front were bare. The cupboards were bare. We didn’t have anything. We didn’t have a thing. We had very, very little and we did a great job. We haven’t been given … And it’s not for me, it’s for the incredible people, the generals, the admirals, the doctors, the nurses and yet you saw yesterday convalescent plasma, you saw remdesivir. You’ll soon see vaccines pouring out years ahead of what they would have been under a more traditional, let’s use that term because it’s nicer, a more traditional administration where they would have taken years to come up with this stuff. We’re coming up with it like nobody’s ever seen before. The FDA, Dr. Hahn I want to thank him, Alex Azar, I want to thank him. They’ve come with things and done things that have never been done in terms of speed and frankly in terms of quality. If you look at it what we’re doing and what we’re coming up with, drug companies are coming up with vaccines that are … I’ve seen some results already, it’s going to be very, very soon. They’re in Stage III trials. It’s unheard of. We wouldn’t be there for two years if this were a more normal situation.
So I just want to thank everybody for being here and again I felt an obligation to come to North Carolina. It’s been a place that’s been very good to me. You know we won a lot of victories here. I haven’t been doing this that long but I won every chance I had in North Carolina. I even stole a great chief of staff, Mark Meadows, right? I stole him from North Carolina, and he left Congress as a very popular guy. Could have been there for a long time if he wanted and he came in and by the way, you have a fantastic young gentleman going to take his place, he’s a fantastic young guy and he’s going to be a real star in the party. He’s going to be a real star in the party.
So I just want to thank everybody from North Carolina and I do want to show a little bit of a difference because another state that’s been very good to me is Wisconsin and Joe Biden was going to have their convention in Milwaukee and they didn’t go there at all, they didn’t do this. We did this out of respect for your state. We didn’t do this for any other reason other than respect for the state of North Carolina. Because we said we wanted to hold our convention in North Carolina and I think you’re going to remember that frankly on November 3. We wanted to hold our convention in North Carolina. So I did that out of respect, and if you had a governor that would have let us have some people. He actually told me this, we had an arena that holds 19,000 people, it was totally jammed, sold out, every hotel was full, everything, and I called him, he said, “But we have a shutdown going on and according to the rules and regulations …” Now this is 19,000, he did say it. I don’t think he’ll deny it, but he said, “According to the rules and regulations, the most people you’re allowed to have in that room,” meaning that arena, he viewed it as a room, “Is 10 people.”
I say, “So Governor, so I’m at 19,000, you’re at 10. Can we work something in the middle.” It didn’t sound too good, so we really had no choice. It was a terrible thing but I felt so badly because you could have … I mean economic development money, all of the things that happen, but we decided, I was with Ronna, the vice president, everybody, Mark, and we said let’s have our big deal, the roll call, let’s have it right here and let’s do it and I’m going to show up and I’m not going to tell anybody. Until a few minutes ago nobody knew I was coming. Nobody knew I was coming. But what’s more important than the roll call? You’re the ones calling it so what’s more important –
We love you Mr. President. We love you.
I have to tell you, we’re going to do a lot of things. I’m just going to go over very briefly because we’re going to make a speech on Thursday night, I hope you’re all going to be listening. Because I came in, I’m on Air Force One and Air Force One has more televisions that any plane in history. They’ve got them in closets, they’ve got them on ceilings, floors. They’ve got more … You can’t escape a television, and I turned to CNN and they didn’t have this. They weren’t having it, can you believe it? They didn’t have it. No no, CNN didn’t have our roll call. Then I turned to MSDNC as I call it. MSDNC which is truly, it is a branch of the Democrats. It’s a I wouldn’t say fully owned corporation but it’s certainly a fully controlled or they control them, nobody really knows who’s controlling who but they had it on television. I remember watching it, it was interesting. You see the difference states and we say this and we say that, the great state of Alaska, the great state of Alabama, the great state of North Carolina, the great state of all of them, and it’s very interesting –
… Carolina. The great state of all of them. And it’s very interesting to me. They had theirs on, but they didn’t show it. Instead, they’re showing the scam because they’re trying to show the post office so that when their whole mail-in thing fizzles, they’ll try blaming it on the post office. Okay. So they show in these hearings that are very boring actually and they’re not showing you this either. They weren’t showing this. And Fox had it on, but unfortunately, Fox wasn’t showing it too much because they had the announcers talking, talking, talking. I said, ” I want to hear what they’re saying, the delegates. I want to hear what they’re saying.” So I think we had to switch over to CSPAN or to OAN or somebody. But I wanted to hear them.
But I can promise you a few things. Number one, we will not be taking the word, God, out of The Pledge of Allegiance. Okay. Like they did a number of times at their caucuses, so they took the word God out. I heard it. I was listening and I said, “That’s strange.” It’s sort of weird. You’ve heard it all your life, right? Under God, under God. All of a sudden, those two words are missing. I said, “Oh, he must’ve made a mistake.” Maybe the teleprompter wasn’t working or his book wasn’t working that I have right here. Something wasn’t working. I must admit. But the problem was then the next day I heard it again. And I said, “That’s not a mistake.” And then they immediately went into a mode, “Oh, no, no, no, no. We didn’t mean that. No, no. We didn’t say if for the convention. We didn’t say it.” No, that’s where they’re coming from. That’s where they’re coming from. You can say it or not say it. That is where they’re coming from.
Just like with energy, they don’t want energy. Not working well in Texas, by the way. I just looked at a poll. And by the way, it just came out that we have received 51% in the big and very important Rasmussen poll, and my numbers actually went up during the Democratic National Convention, 51%. So, think of it.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you.
Four more years.
I love this state.
Four more years.
Think of it-
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you.
Four more years.
I love this state. I like this place and you’re from all over the place. But this has been a good one for me. No, but think of it, so we’re at 51% in Rasmussen. Do you read about it? Do you hear about it?. You don’t hear about it. They give you these suppression polls, where they do registered voters instead of most likely. It’s supposed to be likely, likely. In other words, how about you, you’re likely to vote. But how about you, you’re registered, but I’m not voting. But see, under their plan where they send these ballots, you don’t have to want to vote. You get the ballot and then they have harvesting. They get guys to go, “Do you want to vote?” “No, not really, but I have a ballot.” “All right, good. Who’s it for?” “Sleepy Joe Biden.” “Now put it here, sign. Okay. Could I have it?” And they’ll take it.
In fact, harvesting is illegal in your state. They wanted to put a Republican, a fine man, a pastor, they wanted to put them in jail because he harvested. Now they want to make harvesting legal all of a sudden. They’ll put him in jail as a Republican, right? If he was a Democrat, they wouldn’t even be thinking about it. In California, they do the same thing. No repercussion. In North Carolina, you had a fine pastor, a fine man, and they got him on harvesting and they wanted to put them in jail. And now they want to make it all so that everybody can harvest because they know it’s not a good thing.
So people that don’t want to vote are going to be sitting there, there’ll be making them … If you talk about 80 million ballots, it’s 80 million, it could even be higher than that. I used to say 51 million, now it’s 80 million. They said, “Sir, you’re a little obsolete with the 50.” I said, “All right, what is it?” “80.” I said, “80.” How is it possible? Think of it, they’ll be sending them, they’ll be dumping them in neighborhoods. People are going to be picking them up. They’ll be bribing. They’ll be paying off people to grab some. This is going to be one of the greatest scams. And it’s common sense. This has nothing to do with politics. It’s common sense. Anybody, you don’t have to know politics, they’re going to mail out 80 million ballots. It’s impossible. They have no idea.
Who’s mailing them? Mostly Democrat states and Democrat governors. Well, supposing they don’t mail them to Republican neighborhoods. That means they’re not going to get them. So they’re going to complain and the election’s going to be over. And then they’re going to complain. And then they’ll say, “Oh, well, we didn’t get it. Big deal.” In the meantime, you might lose the election. This is the greatest scam in the history of politics, I think, and I’m talking about beyond our nation. And they act like they’re aggrieved. Like by saying this, we’re saying such a horrible thing. We’re not patriotic by saying this. No, we voted during World War I. We voted at the voting booth during World War II. The pandemic, we’re doing very well and people know how to handle it. Look at the crowds. They’re doing very well. It’s very safe. It’s going to be very safe. If you have an absentee ballot where you request it, we’re all in favor of that. Absentee, like in Florida, they have absentee is good.
But other than that, they’re very, very bad. There’ll be millions of ballots. Take a look at New York, take a look at Virginia, take a look at New Jersey, all different cases. They just had one last night. Now they’re thinking about recalling certain elections that took place with mail-in, and these are small elections that are locally based that are easy to run, not millions, but thousands of ballots, thousands, hundreds of ballots. But these are small, and they can’t control it. They said 23% of the ballots were defective. What does defective mean? It means fraud. It means a lot of things that we won’t get into because I don’t want to be accused. You see all the cameras back there. It’s the fake news. I don’t want to be accused of anything. But what it means is they’re trying to steal the election from the Republicans, that’s what it means. In a very, very nice way, I will tell you they are trying to steal the election just like they did it last time with spying and we caught them, and that included President Obama and that included-
Spygate.
Let’s be nice. Biden. This could only happen in North Carolina. But that included them and they got caught. And then somebody said, “Well, what are you going to do?” ” Well, we can attack a president.” Oh, I see. If it was me … They say we can’t attack a president. We caught him. We caught him cold and they say, we can’t attack. He was at meetings talking about it. And by the way, this was spying before and after. And I think it’s a disgrace to our country. I think we can never let that happen again. But now they’re doing something that in a certain way is more dangerous because it’s more effective. They spied on my campaign, you know what they found, nothing. But this is big stuff. This is stealing millions of votes. And it’s going to be very hard.
Now we’re in courts all over the country. And hopefully, we have judges that are going to give it a fair call because if they give it a fair call, we’re going to win this election. The only way they can take this election away from us is if this is a rigged election. We’re going to win this election.
That’s right.
We’re going to win this election.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
I’m just saying we cannot have these live, we call them live, some people call them universal, I like the word live, these live mail-in ballots sent to everybody, including mostly people that never asked for them. Think of it. You’re sitting there, you get a ballot. Here’s the bottom line. It was just given that in the polls believe it or not because the polls try and treat us right. That’s why I respect Rasmussen because they did well. A few of the others feel the same way, and they did well last time. Those are the ones that I look at. The ones that did well last time and Rasmussen was very good.
But if you look at it, every single vote that they have, every single vote it’s going to be looked at. A man is sitting, or a woman is sitting, waiting for nothing, watching television, has no enthusiasm. Because on enthusiasm, the polls are saying that I’m up by massive numbers, not just a little. I’m also way up on the economy, by the way, put at the top. Way, way up. But I’m up by massive, and when I say I’m up, I’m talking about we’re up. Okay. So if you could [inaudible 00:23:10].
We love you.
But I’m up by massive numbers on enthusiasm. So our voters are saying, “I’m very angry about this. I’ll go to the poll directly and vote.” But that vote is the saying, “I don’t care if Biden gets in.” He doesn’t have any enthusiasm. When you go to Ohio, when you go to Wisconsin, when you go to North Carolina, when you go to a lot of states, they have the Trump-Pence sign on every lawn. It’s all over the place, right? It’s all over.
Indiana wants you.
Indiana too. Indiana is great. Bobby Knight. We love Bobby Knight too. I’ll tell you, we love Bobby Knight and Coach Oates and all of them. They love us. And we love them. Indiana is great. Thank you. But here’s the thing. So if they don’t have any enthusiasm, so you’d say, “Are you going to vote?” “I’m not getting up to vote.” Okay. “I want to watch television instead of vote.” All right. But here’s a ballot. It just got to you. And he opens it. Oh, here’s a ballet. What the hell am I going to do with this thing? And then they have somebody knocking on your door and they’re harvesting. “Hey, have you gotten your ballot?” “Yeah, I have my ballot.” “You going to sign it?” “Well, if you want, I’ll sign it. Here it is. Get out of here.” That’s the most honest way of doing it, and that’s unfair.
That’s unfair because now they’re taking all of that enthusiasm that our party has, and we have tremendous enthusiasm. I think we have record enthusiasm. We have a base the likes of which nobody’s seen, including these people. Wall Street Journal did a fantastic story this weekend, a fantastic cover story this weekend on the base. It’s an incredible base. Everybody here is going to vote everybody in our base. I mean, we have a tremendous base. They don’t. They have no enthusiasm for their candidate. Because frankly, Bernie Sanders, they have much more enthusiasm for him. But Bernie Sanders, excuse me, again, he’s the greatest loser I’ve ever seen. This guy can lose and be so happy. Hillary Clinton, I want to use nice language so I don’t want to a use certain word. It starts with the word S-C. I don’t want to use it because they’ll say he used foul language while in North Carolina. So I won’t do that.
But Bernie Sanders got taken advantage of, is that okay, by Hillary Clinton, but worse by the Democrats this time because of Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren got out of the campaign one day prior to the Super Tuesday vote, Bernie Sanders would have won every single state because Biden won by a little bit. She didn’t do well, but she took thousands and thousands of votes away and he stayed. If you add just a percentage of those votes back, that means that Bernie would have won easily the nomination. And I’m glad he didn’t because he had much more enthusiasm. And he would have had a base, a much smaller base than ours, but equally, I have to say this, equally as enthusiastic. This base doesn’t like Joe Biden. They don’t like Joe Biden. I think we’re going to get a lot of votes. We did last time. People were surprised. Primarily because of trade because I know how other countries take advantage of us, and I understand that, and that’s something that Bernie Sanders people really feel because I understand trade. I’ve done USMCA now. I got rid of NAFTA, the world’s worst [inaudible 00:26:33].
Thank you, Mr. President.
China tariffs. I mean, China had the worst year they’ve had in 67 years prior to the plague. The worst year they’ve had in decades and decades and we had the best year we’ve ever had. But we took in billions from China. We never took in 25 cents from China, never took in 25 cents. China for 25 years, and not only Obama, for 25 years China was taken in anywhere between 200 billion with a B and $550 billion from the United States.
I give them all the credit, number one for being smart and outfoxing all of the people that stood here and their representatives, but China, we built China. We helped build. We gave them three, four, $500 billion a year because before that, and before the World Trade Organization and they getting into it, China was flat line. China was … It was after that happened. And then they took advantage of us because we didn’t have people that were smart enough to see. And by the way, Biden would be the worst of all of them because his son took out one and a half billion dollars and he gets fees on one and a half billion, which is millions of dollars a year. Give me a break. China will own our country if this guy gets elected. We can’t let it happen. We can’t let it happen.
That’s right. Stop that. Drain the swamp.
So, we have a big one coming.
… So we have a big one coming. And just to finish, enthusiasm. So they take the enthusiasm now out of the equation, because they’re going to go knock on everybody’s door. Here, would you sign this? Yeah, I’ll sign it. Nobody knows who the hell is signing it. And they now want to have it where the signature doesn’t have to be verified. That’s right. The signature doesn’t have to be verified. And then they’re going to play the game that we’re not patriotic. What they’re doing is using COVID to steal an election. They’re using COVID to defraud the American people, all of our people, of a fair and free election. And we can’t do that. And don’t let them give you the Post Office stuff. The Postal Service, they do a great job. Lose a lot of money. I’ve said if they charged Amazon and these companies doing that, a couple of dollars more a package, that Amazon has to pay, not the customer.
You know what happened? Post Office would start doing very well, thank you. Amazon dumps all the packages. Why should we deliver it? We’ll let the Post Office do it and lose a fortune. So if they charged Amazon, now of course, he owns the Washington Post. So when I get bad stories in the Washington Post, I wonder why, right? I wonder why. But I just tell it like it is, right? I tell it like it is. We’ve accomplished more. We’ve accomplished more during the first three and a half years of this administration than any president in the history of our country. And I’m not even getting push back. I’ve been saying this for two years, for three years, I used to say for two years, for three years. But we’ve done more, let’s say just about. This way they can’t say, “Well, somebody won a war, or something.” Right? No, no. We’ve accomplished more than just about any administration in the history of our country. We’ve secured our borders.
We’ve built our wall, which will be finished very shortly. We brought back manufacturing jobs. We’ve defeated the entire… Defeated the ISIS caliphate and killed al-Baghdadi. We also killed the greatest, biggest terrorist maybe of them all, Soleimani. We killed Soleimani, right? And al-Baghdadi. We appointed 300 new judges. By the end of the first term, we will have appointed 300. It’s an unheard of number. That’s because president Obama was very nice and he gave me 142 openings. And historically, you get no open. When you become president. First question, you say, “How many judges?” They’ll say, “None, sir.” Because the other previous president, they want to… It’s a very important thing, federal judges.
We will have appointed 300, could be even more than that by the end of the first term. And I sat down, I said, first day, I said, “How many judges do I get to appoint?” They said, “Sir, 142.” I said, “100…” Because you know what? He thought that Hillary was going to win. Right? And the Republicans did not make it easy, let’s say. But if you have enough time, there’s not much anybody can do about it. We ended up with 142 judges. And now we’ve added many, many, and we’re going to end up with 300 and two great Supreme Court justices.
Yeah. Nice work, Mr. President.
And remember this, I’m saying that I’m… I’m demanding actually, a list. Let Biden put up a list of the judges he’s going to appoint. That he’ll take them out, like I did. I had 25 and we’re going to take it out of that list. And we’re going to be announcing a list over the next couple of weeks with the judges that we had, plus we might add a few more. So you know exactly where we stand. He can’t do it, because he would appoint… It’s not him. He has no choice. The radical left will demand that he appoints super radical, left, wild, crazy justices. Going into the Supreme Court, your American dream will be dead if that happens. It’ll be dead. And by the way, the next president… So I’ve had two. Some presidents have had none. I have had to in a relatively short period of time. But I will tell you that the next one could have two, three, four, and even five.
The next president. This is so important. This is so… Whether you’re talking about life, whether you’re talking about second amendment, whether you’re talking about military, this is so important. We have to do this. We have to win this election. But we brought back manufacturing. We rebuilt our military. We wiped out ISIS. I mean, think of it. When I came, ISIS was all over Iraq. The Prime Minister of Iraq was in last week and he said, “I want to thank you for defeating ISIS.” I said, “Now, are you talking about me or the United States?” “You, because when you came into office, it was a mess. They were all over Iraq and Syria, and you defeated them, sir.” I said, “Good. Tell that to the media, please. Would you do that?” And he said, “I will.” So let’s say he does. But we passed the biggest tax cuts and regulations cuts in the history of our country.
We replaced the worst trade deal ever made, NAFTA, with a great USMCA deal, that’s going to keep our companies here and it’s going to be treating us very nicely. And I wouldn’t say the other two countries were thrilled with it, but they were happy enough. And we did that. And that’s another thing, they said, “You’ll never be able to replace NAFTA. You’ll never be able to get it.” And I got it. We got it through Congress. We fixed a lot of our broken and bad trade deals. We’re getting 40 billion now from Japan. We fixed a horrible deal that was made with South Korea. Remember, that was a Hillary Clinton special. She said, “This will produce 250,000 jobs.” And she was right. Except unfortunately, the jobs went to South Korea, not to us. She said it would produce 250,000 jobs. And it did, to South Korea. And we stood up to China like nobody’s ever stood up. Between the tariffs and the trade deal, which now… Don’t forget, when I made that the ink wasn’t dry before the China virus poured into our country, right?
The ink wasn’t dry. So I view that differently than I would have, because it’s done very well. In the last week they had the largest order of corn, the largest order of soybeans. They are doing things… They’re very smart. A lot of people, because they see my attitude. A lot of people would say, “We’re not going to order.” They do just the opposite. I got a call last week, “Sir…” In fact, Sonny Purdue is here. The great Sonny Purdue, Secretary of Agriculture. There he is. Is that right, Sonny? I got a call. They ordered the largest, it was the largest order of corn in the history of our country. Twice. Twice. The largest order of corn. The largest order of soybeans.
Here’s how smart, somebody else would say, running some country. They’d say, “Well, we’re not going to do business with him. He’s not saying nice things about…” China’s very smart. Instead, they order more corn than we’ve ever thought possible. Right, Sonny? Order more soybeans than we ever thought possible. And now I have farmers calling me up, “Sir, we love China very much. Please don’t be too tough on them.” It makes it very difficult, Sonny, right? We do too good a job sometimes. We’ve achieved American energy independence. And we’re now number one in the world, by far.
And I saw where these phonies, you know they want to end everything we’ve done. They want to end it. They want to go to wind. They don’t even know if they want to go to wind. I think they want to just basically close up our country, because they’ve taken away our strength, but they want to do something. But, there is no such thing. Solar can’t do it. I love solar. It’s all fine. Very, very heavily expensive. Very expensive. But they want to go to other forms of alternative energy. And I think that’s okay, except we don’t have them. And it’s not going to power these massive factories.
We need hydro!
And hydro, I love. It’s one of my all time favorites. Hydro, I love. I have to tell you. That’s the Great Dams. You don’t see that too much. You know why? The environmentalist say, “You can’t build a dam there.” But now we can, because we’ve done-
… Yes we can!
We’ve done things that nobody thought were possible. Like example, the Keystone pipeline. We got that approved. The Dakota Access pipeline. They were all bogged down, right? Right? We’ve got things that they said you couldn’t get done. We’re energy independence. And they said, “We want to ban fracking.” No fracking. How do you think they’ll do in Texas, Oklahoma, North Dakota? Louisiana is going to love it. There’s no fracking. There’s basically… They want no fossil fuel whatsoever. Okay? No gas, no oil, no coal. No nothing. Okay.
So they don’t want anything. Now, they’re getting killed. Because a poll just came out in Texas. Texas wasn’t happy. They want no guns. They want no oil and gas. And they want no God. No God. It’s no religion, no guns, no oil and gas. I don’t think you’re going to do too good in Texas. George Washington could come back from the dead and he could choose as his VP candidate, the late great Abraham Lincoln. And you’re not going to win the state of Texas if you have no oil, no guns and no religion. I don’t think so.
Nice work!
I don’t think so. You’re not going to win too many places. We eliminated Obamacare’s horrible and very unfair individual mandate, which basically knocked out Obamacare. We knocked out Obamacare. We’ve protected your second amendment. So important. We’re protected the second amendment. We’ve cut drug prices, first time in 51 years, we got drug prices down. Now, I’m really doing it. I did a favored nations clause. Meaning, we pay the same price as the lowest country that has the best deal. The companies are going crazy. The drug companies. They’re taking ads on me. I said… I went to Mark Meadows. I said, “Mark, they’re killing me.” They have nothing but cash. Okay? Big pharma, they call it for a reason. There’s nobody that gives the politicians more money than big pharma. Nobody. Not even close. So I said, “Well look, if you’re not going to negotiate a fair deal, we’re going to do a favored nations clause.” To the top people, the biggest guys.
They said, “No, don’t do that, favored nations.” Favored nations, because you know, we have countries out there that are paying a tiny fraction of what our people are expected to pay. So if you have a country, Germany or others, they make… By the way, UK, all of Europe, Canada pays 50%, 5-0. 50% less. In fact, people leave our country, go to Canada, and pick up their drugs and they come back home. Can you believe that? This is the kind of difference. So I said, “No, I want a favored nations clause. I also want a rebate clause.” A rebate, where instead of the money going to the middleman, who have to be the richest people in the world. They get so much. They get more money, frankly, than the drug companies. At least the drug companies make a product. So I wiped out the rebate, where now it goes to people. And I instituted what’s called a favored nations clause.
And it’s very simple. You have that in deals. It’s whatever the lowest price in the world, we’re the biggest purchaser of prescription drugs by far in the world. So whatever the lowest price is that other countries pay. So if you have a country paying 25 cents for a pill and we’re paying $2.50 cents, and it’s not such an exaggeration, believe me, then we get it for 10. So what happens is that doesn’t work. So they’ll go up a little bit. We’ll come way, way down. So I said, “Favored nations. I want to pay what the lowest price is anywhere in the world. We’re the biggest purchaser, we want a favored nations.”
They had a heart attack. And then I signed it. They didn’t believe it. And now what they’re doing is they have ads, millions and millions of dollars worth of ads, that I’ve been horrible to the people because of drugs. And I believe in socialism. Socialism. You know why? Because some of the socialistic countries get the lowest price. So the only thing I have with socialism is I wanted to get their price. Okay. That’s the only thing. Other than that is our country will never be a socialist country.
Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
So we cut drug crisis. And you could get cuts. You could get cuts.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
You could get cuts as much as 50, 60 or 70%, maybe even more than that, on prescription drug prices. And wouldn’t it be a kick… I’ll use this, wouldn’t it be a kick in the ass if I lost and sleepy Joe is president, and this thing kicks in right about soon, right? In 30, 40 days. And people wake up after the election. Boy, Biden’s done a great job. My drug prices just went down by 70%. What a great-
My drug prices just went down by 70%. What a great president he’s been. He’s great. And sleepy Joe would say, I thought about that, but everybody knew about favorite nations, but nobody had the guts to do it. And I’ll tell you, I was called by many politicians, please don’t do it, sir. Please. I said, “why?” They don’t want to tell me why. I know why. Because they’re politicians and they’ve been helped out and I guess we have to understand that too. But the fact is that we signed a favorite nations clause and a rebate clause, and your numbers are going to come down 60, 70%. And I hope you remember that on November 3rd, because nobody but me would ever do it.
The other thing I’ve done aside from very strongly protecting your Second Amendment, which was not easy. That was not easy. And by the way, they will take your guns away as sure as you’re standing or sitting there. They will take your guns away, either that or obliterate the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms. You have the right to bear arms, especially when you look at a Portland and you see how weak those Democrats are. The governor, the mayor, how pathetic they let them riot every night. We’re saying, let us come in and solve your problem. We will solve it for you in one hour just like we did in Minneapolis, Minnesota, right? Five nights, six nights, they have to ask us in. Let us come in. We’ll solve your problem.
They’re almost used to it. This is the way our whole country would be if you ever let a thing like this happen, our whole country would be. So we protected your preexisting conditions, very strongly protected… and you don’t hear that. But we very strongly protected your preexisting condition. So we got rid of the horrible individual mandate, which cost everybody a fortune and we strongly protected. Every Republican is sworn to protecting your pre existing conditions. It’s very important. You won’t hear that. You won’t hear that from the fake news. We passed Right to Try. We passed VA Accountability and VA Choice. We mobilized the largest response since the Second World War. We are doing an incredible job on the China virus, but I’m going to talk to you about that Thursday night. Will anybody be listening on Thursday night?
And just very quickly, in the second term among many other things, we’ll continue with our military. We built the strongest military by far. It was depleted. A nice Marine back there. It was depleted like you wouldn’t believe. We have the best jets and rockets and equipment of any kind, tanks. Tanks made in Ohio. Lima. Tanks made in Ohio. So we’re going to create 10 million jobs, I think very easily, in the first 10 months. They want to raise your taxes. All my life I’ve heard as a politician, you like to lower taxes, right? This is the only election where somebody said we’re going to raise your taxes. They’re going to raise your taxes, quadruple your taxes. They’re going to add on to the regulations. There all of these projects that we got started that are great projects, they won’t be able to get built.
So they’re going to raise your taxes. They’re going to raise your regulations, make it impossible to build a highway. It used to take 17 years, 18 years, 20 years, 21 years, long time in some cases, to get approval to build a highway, right? We have it down to two years now, we’re going to have it down to one. And it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons, but we’re going to know it very quickly. We’re not going to take 17 years. We could name highways. They took forever. End up costing a hundred times more and they’re not as good. Some of them go in circles, I mean, to get to a point. They want to [inaudible 00:03:44]. Let’s spend 37 million to… look, we’ve got to be smart. Got to be smart. We’ve got to win an election. Also, we’re going to create tax credits for companies that bring our jobs back from China and other countries and impose tariffs on countries that take advantage of the United States.
They’ve been taking advantage of us for years and years, and I’ve already done it in certain cases. We have countries that tariff us and we don’t tariff them. So they tariff us. It’s very simple. It’s called reciprocal. They tariff us, we tariff them. We are going to fully fund law enforcement and hire more police. We’re going to go with school choice and we’ve made a lot of progress on school choice for every student in America. We’re going to continue to expand opportunities zones. There has been nothing better. Don’t forget. It was us, us together that got criminal justice reform done. The greatest thing for the black community, African American community. They came and they said, “We can’t believe it. Obama didn’t even try.” And not only that, I got funded, the historically black colleges and universities. I got them funded. They weren’t funded. They were year to year. They didn’t know if they were going to be around for another year and they’d come in to the White House.
And after three years, I said, “Why do you guys keep coming back?” Well, it’s a year to your deal. I said, “That’s not fair. So you have to come back every year.” And we got them longterm financing and longterm funding. Nobody’s done more for the historically black colleges and universities than Donald Trump. Nobody. Nobody’s done more for the African American community. No president has done as much as anybody since, I mean, since, and I say it, since Abraham Lincoln. It’s true. It’s true. Criminal justice reform, opportunity zones with Tim Scott of South Carolina. He’s a great senator, he’s a great gentleman. Tim Scott is fantastic. Opportunities zones. But think of it, criminal justice reform, opportunity zones, the colleges and universities. What we’ve done has been amazing. But the most important thing is prior to the virus, the greatest job numbers in the history of the African American community, the Hispanic community and the Asian, as I said. So I just want to thank everybody. We’re going to get rid of our sanctuary cities as soon as we can so that they don’t protect.
We put NASA back in action. NASA had grass growing through its runway. It had grass growing through the cracks of its runways. It was closed, essentially, just a disaster. Now it’s the number one space center anywhere in the world by far. You saw the ships going up. And for some reason, a lot of rich people like rockets going up. And so we say, let’s lease them our beautiful launching areas and let them send all the rockets, let them pay for it. But we’ll be landing on Mars. We’re going to the moon. We’re go into Mars. We’ll be the first on Mars. Let’s see if that happens. We have to do it. If we hear it’s going to happen. If somebody else is here, you’re probably not. But I just want to, again, thank… I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart. You’re incredible warriors. You have incredible strength. You have unbelievable intelligence and patience. It’s a combination of both. I don’t know which is greater, the intelligence or the patience, but let’s assume it’s the intelligence. But I have to tell you, I think we have the greatest base of support anywhere at any time, any election and people are starting to find that out. They found it out in 2016. And I will be honest, this election, I believe we have far greater enthusiasm in this election. And we had a level that was a record because they still don’t believe what happened. They said, “Where are all these people coming from?” Right? People that were great Americans that never voted, because they didn’t like who they were watching or looking. People were great, they didn’t vote. I’ll never forget, a Congressman from Tennessee came up. They do very early voting. Tennessee, a great state. And they had just started voting. And I was in Pennsylvania making a speech.
And he said, “Sir, I don’t know. I can’t speak for anybody, but I’m from Tennessee and I’ve been doing this for a long time.” He said, “I’ve never seen anything like it. People are coming from the valleys and the hilltops. And they’re coming from the cities. They’re coming from all over. I never say, they’re coming out of the rivers. They’re coming along those beautiful war fields that we have. They’re coming from everywhere, sir. I’ve never seen anything like it.” But if other States are like Tennessee, you’re going to win this election. He was the first one to say it. He was the first one. They came from the mountains. They came from everywhere. He said, “I’ve never seen anything like it.” And people they’d be having Trump pins and the hats. These are people that never were political people. They never wore a pin in their life having to do with politics. It’s been an incredible experience for me. It’s been an incredible experience, I think, for everyone. And I’ll tell you what, next year is going to be an incredible… it’s going to be a great, great year.
It’s going to be a year of tremendous success. We’re fighting off this horrible thing that was delivered by China. And it was by China and we’re never going to forget it and I let them know. We’re never going to forget what they did because you know what? We’re going to do great economics [inaudible 00:51:42] best year in the history of your state, but we’re going to do better economically than we did last year. But we can never forget the 175,000 people, which will go up. Remember this though, we saved millions because if we didn’t move and if I didn’t put the ban on highly heavily infected people coming to our nation from China, that everybody told me not to do. Months later, they were saying we shouldn’t… and then they all either apologized or admitted it was right. And Europe. I did Europe too, very early. If we didn’t do that, our numbers would be at a level like you wouldn’t believe.
So, I just want to thank everybody for this incredible support. Be very, very careful. This is going to be, and I really believe this. This is the most important election in the history of our country. Don’t let them take it away from you. Don’t let them take it away. North Carolina, we love you. That’s why I’m here. Thank you very much. Very special people. Thank you. God bless you all. Thank you.
(singing).
Wow.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
You’re really fantastic and I want to thank you very much. You really are. Thank you very much. And thank you, Bill. And thank you to the Council for National Policy. My brother, Robert would have wanted me to be here today. Thank you very much.
Together we’re committed to protecting the American people, preserving American values, defending America’s heritage and keeping America safe, strong, prosperous, and free. I want to thank Bob McEwen, Kelly Shackelford and Jenny Beth Martin, for your tremendous leadership of the CNP, done a fantastic job. We’re also joined by acting secretary of Homeland Security, who’s done incredibly, Chad Wolf, where is Chad? Thank you very much, Chad. You’re right in the heart of it and got some big things coming, very big things. Good job. Also, Lieutenant Governor, friend of mine, Dan Patrick of Texas, Dan. Dan, wherever you may be. What a great guy, great family, great son, doing a tremendous job as US attorney. And many other state and local officials, I want to thank you all for being here, we have a lot of horsepower here, a lot of firepower you might want to say.
But over the last week, the Democrats held the darkest and angriest and gloomiest convention in American history. They spent four straight days attacking America as racist and a horrible country that must be redeemed. Joe Biden grimly declared a season of American darkness and yet look at what we’ve accomplished until the plague came in, look at what we’ve accomplished. And now we’re doing it again. It’s most successful period of time in the history of our country, from every standard, look what we’ve accomplished. And now this plague comes in and look at the way they talk. But look at what’s happening and look at how we’re shooting up. We call it a super V, it’s no longer a V, it’s a super V and they didn’t think that could happen and they’re probably not happy about it.
They want to punish America and its citizens instead of holding them high, where Joe Biden sees American darkness, I see American greatness. We’ve seen heroic doctors and nurses racing into action to save lives. We’ve seen first responders helping strangers in need. We’ve seen the passage of historic legislation to save 50 million American jobs. We’ve mobilized American industry like never before. We’ve built military hospitals from scratch, produced life saving therapies, and we’re on track to develop the most incredible from a standpoint of time, record time, vaccines. We have vaccines. You’ll be reading about them very soon, way, way ahead of schedule, years ahead of schedule. This would have been where we are now, Phase 3 trials, clinical trials, you wouldn’t have been there in two or three years if you went back to another administration.
It’s time to reject the anger and the hate of the Democrat Party, we have the biggest election coming up of our lifetime. No party can lead America that spends much time tearing down America. But the biggest part of last night’s speech was what Joe Biden didn’t talk about. He didn’t talk about law enforcement, he didn’t talk about bringing safety to Democrat run cities that are totally out of control and they have no clue. China was never mentioned in any way, shape or form. China will own our country if he gets elected, they will own our country. And we’re not going to let that happen.
And you’ve seen the intelligence reports, China very much wants Joe Biden to win. That would be very insulting if they wanted me to win. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. We’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars from China. We’ve given it to our farmers. We’ve given it to a lot. They had the worst year they’ve had in 67 years, we had the best year we’ve ever had.
We’ve demonstrated over the last four years the extraordinary gains that are possible while we stand strong for our beliefs, when we trust the wisdom of our founders and when we embrace America’s destiny, it’s a great destiny. With your help, we carried out the largest tax and regulation cuts, by far, in American history. And they now want to quadruple taxes and they want to quadruple and beyond the regulation cuts. And when we say tax and we say regulation, and you say, oh, tax cuts, that’s so wonderful, but the people in this room that are the heads of industry, you have some very powerful people in this room, they know that the regulation cuts may have been even more important than the biggest tax cuts we’ve ever had. To build a highway in this country could take in certain places, 18, 19, 20, even 21 years to get approved. It’s just not even thinkable. And we’ve got it now down to two and we’ll have it down to probably one and it may get rejected for safety reasons or for environmental reasons, that’s okay, it may happen. But we have it down, we will soon have it down to one year from as much as 21 years, we have cases that have just been disastrous. So I just wanted you to know some of the little details, but that’s what we’re working on. We’ll have it down to one year to build a highway. You can do it all in one year, it doesn’t have to take 21 years and cost a hundred times more, literally, I’ve seen a hundred times more.
We eliminated Obamacare’s unfair individual mandate penalty, which is really the elimination of Obamacare. And to give to critically ill patients access to lifesaving drugs, we passed a thing called and hopefully nobody in his room will need it, but if you do it’s Right to Try, we have the greatest medicines, the greatest doctors and labs in the world and we have things that won’t be approved by the FDA for a little while, although I’ve cut that time now down in half. Used to be 12 years, now we’ve cut it down more than half. And you see that with the vaccines, you see it with the therapeutics. But Right to Try, where we have the right to now go in and use some of these very promising drugs and the response has been unbelievable. What’s happened and the lives saved have been really incredible.
People used to leave for Asia. They used to leave for Europe. They used to leave for other places all over the world, or they’d go home and die. They’d go home and dive. If they had no money, they’d go home and die, which is most people. Now they sign a very short, simple document and they have the Right to Try and it’s given them hope and in many cases, it’s given their life back. So it’s been a great thing. These are things that nobody talks about that, but they’ve been trying to get that approved, by the way, not as easy as it sounds. It’s complicated because you have the insurance companies and the doctors and the hospitals and the country itself doesn’t want to get sued. And so it’s not very easy, but they’ve been trying to get it approved for 41 years, they’ve been trying to get that, that’s just one of many, many things that we’ve done, for 41 years.
To provide our amazing veterans the care they deserve, we passed VA Accountability and VA Choice. Many, many decades they’ve been trying to get that. Choice meaning you wait in line and you can’t see a doctor and they would wait in line for a week or two weeks or five weeks, sometimes they’d be ill and they’d end up being terminally ill by the time they saw the doctor and we’re letting them go out and get a private doctor immediately and we pay the bill. And we just got a 91% approval rating in the VA, the highest we’ve ever had by many points, 91%. VA Accountability sounds simple, but it’s not. You couldn’t let anybody go, no matter how they disrespected our great vets, no matter what they said to them, no matter how badly they treated them.
And we had sadists and we had thieves, we had a lot of bad people. You couldn’t fire them under any circumstances, under any circumstance you couldn’t fire them. And now we say, “You. You’re fired.” It’s called VA Accountability and they’ve wanted to have that. Actually they’ve let go of 9,000 people, replaced them with people that love our vets, want to take care of our vets, great people and we had a terrible thing going, you couldn’t get them fired because of civil service and unions and different things. You couldn’t fire them, now you can fire them, you can fire them quickly if they’re not doing the job. It’s a big deal and we don’t talk about it a lot, nobody talks about it, but they’ve been trying to get those two things approved for more than four decades and now they’re done and they’re approved.
We ended the Obama/Biden administration’s war on American energy. And the United States is now the leading producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. It’s a big thing. And remember this, if you look at what they’re doing, Biden, he wants to end fracking, end petroleum products, end petroleum, no natural gas, no nothing, end everything. And that’s it. How does that work in Texas? How does that work in Pennsylvania?
I was in Pennsylvania yesterday. A place that he said he was born in, which is true, but he left when he was like nine years old. So he left a long time ago, he left seven decades ago and he still calls it his home. And his real home is a place he never leaves anymore, never leaves. Never leaves the outskirts of that state. You’d think he’d go a little bit, it’s not that far. Never leaves. We’ll figure it out pretty soon.
But they want to end fracking, they want to end drilling, they want to end everything, they want to end all of this. So I said, think of it, they want to end oil, they want to end, and this is the way it is, guns, they want to take away Second Amendment. Right? How about that? That alone should win you the election. That alone.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
And I protect your Second Amendment and you think that was easy for the last four years? Everyone’s, “Oh, look, he’s wilting. He’s wilting.” And no, we’re not welting. We’ve had people that were in tragedies and they lost a son in school and they lost a daughter, beautiful Meadow. And that gentleman has been a friend of mine, he knows exactly who I’m talking about. Beautiful Meadow, they’re totally in favor, they’ve actually gotten hard line on Second Amendment, it’s not one way. It’s a incredible thing to see actually. But we held totally strong and it’s always going to be with us. But if they get in, they will absolutely either obliterate it to a point of no return or actually terminate it and I have no doubt about it. I have absolutely no doubt about it. And it’s something we can’t let happen, such a big part of our security and our safety and your entertainment and all, but I say security and safety probably first, right?
And God, it’s an attack on God. It’s an attack on religion. Did you see the man that got up and saying a very, very special phrase from a very, very special thing? And he left the word God out and I was watching and I said, “Oh, he must’ve made a mistake.” I didn’t think that he left it out, I thought maybe he… You know, that can happen, maybe he made a mistake. He didn’t make a mistake, that’s where they’re coming from. He left the word God out and that’s where they’re coming from.
I withdrew from the one sided Paris… If you see it, the Paris Climate, I call it the Paris Climate Disaster. This was a way of taking advantage of the United States. We wouldn’t be able to drill, we wouldn’t be able to frack, we wouldn’t have energy. Russia went way back into the dirtiest years, China didn’t even come into it until 2030 or 2035 and when they did, they came in very lightly. We came in immediately and we would have had to close down many, many businesses in order to achieve the goals that they set, which are totally unrealistic. It was a disaster.
And you know, it’s an amazing thing, when I did that and when I did a couple of others, environmental bills, the Clean Waters Act how about that? That sounds so beautiful. The name is so beautiful. In fact, when I did it, I said, I’m going to be killed on this one, and I did it. And I was surrounded by farmers and developers, builders that built houses and others and they never cried, they’re very strong people, they never cried a day in their life. They were almost all crying.
There was a big strong guy, I said, “When was the last time you cried?” “I can’t remember, sir.” I gave them back their life. That took away their life. And what we did in Minnesota with the iron ore, people up to me, they said, “You gave us back our life, Obama wrote it out.” Iron ore, the best in the world. He wrote it out. We gave it back to them. We went up to Maine, we gave them back their lobsters, we gave them back their fishing.
We gave them back their lobsters. We gave them back their fishing. 5,000 square miles. Think of what that is. Take one mile, mile by mile, and now you add five. As big as the ocean is, that was a big chunk right off the coast of Maine. Their whole thing is lobsters and fishing, and nobody does it better. And they were not allowed. It was a monument, called a monument. I said, “A monument to what?” I said when I was up in Maine two weeks ago, I said to people that their whole life was lobster, fishing, the different things, and they’re the best. I said, “What happened?” They said, “He took away our everything.” I said, “How does this area compare to other areas?” He said, “First of all, it takes a long time to get to the other areas. This is so big. But second of all, this is the best there is in the world and he doesn’t let us use it.” And I said, “And yet, you vote Democrat and [crosstalk 00:00:19:14].” It’s like Israel. Look what I did for Israel.
Thank you. But it’s amazing to me because nobody’s been worse to Israel than President Obama and Biden, nobody. Nobody’s been worse. Look at the Iran deal, it’s the worst thing that ever happened to Israel. And they never moved the embassy to Jerusalem thereby making Jerusalem the capital of Israel, which I did. And neither did any other president. And I understand why. They campaign on it, campaign. Every president said they were going to do it, no president did it until I came along. And I will tell you, the pressure from other parts of the world was enormous.
And I’ve told the story a few times where I just turned off my phone and when the king calls and this one calls and that one calls, “We’re calling about Israel.” I say, “Tell them I’ll get back in a couple of days. I’ll get back in a couple of days. I’ll be in next week.” Kings and queens and prime ministers and presidents and dictators, everybody was calling. “Don’t do it. Don’t do it. It’ll be bloodshed all over the Middle East.” Look what we just did, right? With the United Arab Emirates and Israel. And now others will follow. And we couldn’t have done that if we had the deal with Iran. But they said, “Don’t do it, don’t do it with Israel. Don’t do it.” And I didn’t take that call. And I did it, had a ceremony. It was fine. Nothing happened. Remember? The world was going to blow up. This will be the end of the world. So I held my breath and I did it. And you know what happened? Nothing. Except we did something that should have been done many, many decades ago. And every president violated their promise, their campaign promise, except for me. And I did it. And by the way, I added in Golan Heights. That was a big one too, by itself. And I did it. And it’s incredible. I then call up these heads of state, many of whom are friends of mine, I get along. Actually, you don’t hear this from the fake news back there, oh, there’s a lot of press, a lot of press. But you don’t hear this from the people back there, but I actually have very good relationships with leaders, with many of them. And some of them just take too much advantage of our country, including some of our so-called allies. Some of them are the worst for taking advantage of us, but you don’t hear that. So what I did is I called some of the leaders the following week. “Hi, how you doing? What’s up?” “Oh, we wanted to talk to you about Israel, but you already did it.” I said, “Oh, I wish I got to you a little bit sooner.”
But that’s easier than having somebody asking you over and over, “Please don’t do it.” But I could see there was a lot of pressure. I never understood why it wasn’t done it. It wasn’t done because there’s tremendous pressure put on the President of the United States by many other countries, much more than you would think, and different countries than you would even think. Countries that you wouldn’t think even cared about it were calling, asking not to do it. So we did it and it’s been really quite historic, I guess. And I could run in Israel and I think they said I’m probably a 98% approval rating in Israel. It’s been great. And you know who appreciates it the most are the evangelical Christians. They appreciate it the most.
That has been, just by itself, that’s one thing out of many, many things, but that’s been quite an interesting journey. But we also took historic action to stand up to China’s trade cheating and plundering. You know that? We had the best year we ever had and they’ve had the worst year they’ve had in 67 years. I wonder why. And I don’t want them to have bad years, but there’s been nobody that has ripped off the United States like China for so many years, how presidents before me allowed that to happen. And especially the one just before me. And Joe Biden with his son walking out with $1.5 billion to manage, meaning millions of dollars a year in fees, is a disgrace. That guy, he’s a disgrace.
And then the vast sums of money he was paid by a Ukrainian company that didn’t have the highest standing, to put it mildly, but the vast sums of money. If that ever happened to a Republican, they would have been in jail a long time ago. It’s such a double standard. I can’t tell you. This whole thing with all of the things that happened, the deep state, you can believe it, you don’t have to believe it, but it’s very unfair. And I will say that if a Republican ever did what Joe Biden did with calling off the prosecutors or you’re not going to get a billion dollars, and he’s on tape. It’s not like, “Oh, gee.” I mean, he’s on tape. We wouldn’t have had a chance. It’s a disgrace. The double standard is a disgrace. And hopefully it’ll be brought back to fairness.
And remember this, they spied on my campaign and they got caught. They can say what they want. This FBI agent has just now, first one, admitted. That’s the beginning, hopefully, of the falling castle. But he’s admitted that he forged documents. He changed documents, reversing them, and he admitted it. So let’s see what’s going to happen over the next, hopefully, short period of time. Because it’s been unfair that we’ve had to wait so long. That was so obvious for a long time, and it should never be allowed to happen to another president again. That I can tell you. And that’s for the good of the country. Not for me, for the good of the country. Within three years, we replaced NAFTA, which everybody said was impossible to do, with a brand new and really pro-America USMCA. It’s a whole different ball game. And we don’t want to lose our companies to Mexico and Canada. And this puts a tremendous price tag on doing that. If they want to do that, they won’t be doing that. In everything we do, my administration is fighting for the American people and delivering one victory after another. We have appointed more than 230 federal judges. We expect to be perhaps over 300 federal judges by the end of the year. Thank you. I can tell you it’s driving them crazy. Don’t forget President Obama. They say he was a great president. Well, you can’t be a great president when much of what he’s done we’ve undone. And you can’t be a great president when you leave 142 empty judgeships. I don’t think any president’s left any. These are very, very important things for a party. Different policies, different everything. You understand it better than anybody, the people in this room. Left us 142. First day in office, I said, “How many judges do I have to appoint?” “Sir, you have 142.” I said, “You have to be kidding. 140.” So I had a big headstart. But we have 142. But now we will have, I think, in excess, by the time we finish, in excess of 300, including Court of Appeals. And of course, two very exceptional Supreme Court justices. So good, really good. And remember this in terms of get out the vote. The next president, I think, could have anywhere from two to four to maybe even five, just based on statistics, statistically, Supreme Court justices to pick. Think of that. I’ve had two. Some presidents have had none because you generally pick them young and they last a long time, right? They can last a long time. But we could have two to three to four, maybe even to five. It’s probably a stretch, but four isn’t a stretch at all. That would mean that the entire balance of the court doesn’t just shift, it becomes dominant. So if we don’t win, which we don’t want to think about, we have to think positively, and the polls today, Rasmussen, 51%. And they were the ones that got it right last time, them and a few others. 51%. They don’t want to show those. They only want to show those polls, not likely voters, registered voters. What does that mean? Many are dead. Many have switched their party affiliations. Registered, they don’t show likely. But you see some of these polls where they interview many more Democrats than Republicans. And they have to, I guess, by law, they interviewed. But many more. And they don’t go likely. Why don’t they do likely voters? Because I think they’d be very upset. I think they know they’d be very upset. Bottom line, we’re doing very well. We have the biggest crowds. I think there’s more enthusiasm now for this election than there was even, it’s record enthusiasm, by the way, record setting enthusiasm right now, it’s more now than we had even four years ago. Does that make sense?
And we had the same thing four years ago where they say … But now we’ve done so much. This is easier in many ways. We were sailing. By the way, without the plague from China, this thing was over. This was over, we were sailing. But that came in and then you have to prove yourself again. So now I have to prove myself again, but we’re doing that. We’re building up the economy. We’re way ahead, by every poll, even the fake polls, we’re way ahead on the economy, which is very important. But we are. I mean, think of it. You prove yourself, you’re in this, and now you have to do it again. But that’s what we’re doing. We have the V, we have the super V we can talk about. But with the help of countless faith leaders, many of you are in the room, we appreciate it, we passed historic criminal justice reform.
And nobody’s done more for the Black community or the Hispanic community than we have. Nobody, nobody. I guess maybe Lincoln, questionable. Abraham Lincoln. But I don’t think anybody, with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, but nobody’s done more. If you look at opportunity zones, you look at all of the things we’ve done, nobody’s done more. After years of neglect by both parties, my administration understands that a strong nation must have strong borders. By next week, we will have gone up to over, as I say, 300 miles. That’s hard to believe. And that was tough. They didn’t want it. Do you notice now that we’re building it you don’t hear about it anymore? They don’t want to talk about it anymore. And it’s a bad issue for the Democrats because everyone knows that walls work.
It’s interesting. No matter with all the technology and all the changes you see, you don’t recognize a computer from five years ago, it’s not even recognizable, two things don’t change, right? Walls and wheels. And you can come back in 2000 years from now and two things will still be around, wheels and walls. Remember when they were saying the wall doesn’t do anything? They wanted to have a drone flying around, flying around to join so you could watch everybody pour into our country.
We’ve ended catch and release, one of the great scams of all time. We catch them and release them. They should say catch and release into our country because you catch them and then you release them and you weren’t allowed to bring them back. Now we bring them back. We absolutely bring them back. We’ve dismantled drug smuggling and human trafficking. These networks are horrible. Human trafficking in women. Which has turned out, you think of it as almost an ancient crime, but it’s not. It’s bigger now all over the world than it’s ever been because of the computer, because of the internet. It’s bigger now than ever before. It’s a horrible thing. Much of it through the southern border, but all over the world this is taking place. And we’ve brought it down to levels that nobody thought even possible. But it’s a terrible thing. Mostly trafficking in women. Children to a lesser extent, but women.
We’ve removed 20,000 gang members, including 4,500 MS-13 members, and we brought them back to their countries. And their countries, under the Obama administration, didn’t want to take people. You know that, right? They didn’t want to take them. They said, “No, don’t bring them back here. We’re not taking them.” Guatemala, El Salvador, right? Honduras. They wouldn’t take people back. Now they take them back. They say, “Oh, thank you very much.”
The last administration left us with a Middle East in chaos. This was a Middle East in chaos. Iran was empowered and exporting terror. They don’t have too much money now. They’re not spending billions of dollars giving it to Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, some of these wonderful groups that are totally vicious, crazed lunatics. But Iran is different. It’s having a hard time. It’s GDP went down at a level that you wouldn’t even believe, in the 20s. And they’ll make a deal. I say they’ll make a deal within a month, but I probably mean a week. But I just want to be right. Because they’ll call me. They’ll say, “It took 10 days. He was wrong.” They just want to see. If I win, they’ll be in making a deal. And if for some reason I don’t, they’ll take their time and they will get one of the great deals since the last one where we paid them 150 billion. Billion. Gave them 150 for nothing.
It wasn’t even a long term deal. You know, right now, the time is almost up. This was a short term deal. It’s like you rent a store in a shopping center. These are countries we’re dealing with. You need length, but it was a short term deal. But more important, we gave them 1.8 billion in cash. Think of that. Cash, cash. We flew it in in Boeing 757s loaded from floor to ceiling with cash. What were these people thinking? And had I kept that deal, we terminated that deal, had I kept that deal, we could never have started this incredible thing that’s happening with UAE, Israel. And everybody’s saying, “Why haven’t you invited us?” Okay. Many countries now want to come in. This was an impossible thing to even conceive of, impossible.
Even Tom Friedman at the New York Times gave us an A plus. Can you believe it? He couldn’t even believe it. I wouldn’t say he’s been a big fan, but the New York Times gave us the best editorial I’ve had. I can’t even believe it. I’m surprised they did. I’m sure they’ve-
I can’t even believe it. I’m surprised they did it. I’m sure they’ve changed it by now. Somebody got in, they said, “Who wrote that editorial?” They probably lost their job. But Tom Friedman actually wrote the editorial. It was very fair. It’s true. He couldn’t believe it. It’s gotten great reviews from everybody. Wall Street Journal, Washington Post. Can you believe that one? Everybody gave it and we couldn’t have done that deal had we stayed in this horrible deal done by John Kerry who just had no clue as to negotiation. He never got out. They would tell him, ” We want this. We want this. We want this.” And he’d sit there and he’d agree to everything. Sometimes you have to get up and walk. He never got up and walked. Once he rode his bicycle. Remember it? He was in an accident.
I promised at 73 years old, I said, “I’ll never be riding a bicycle.” He had the helmet. He had the names, the insignias all over. He had insignias like he was a 20 year old great cyclist from France. So that delayed him about two months. They said, “He just got hurt in a bicycle accident.” What? It’s not a good accident when you … So I promised I wouldn’t do that. I might get hurt, but I’m not getting hurt riding a bicycle.
But if you look at the Obama Administration, ISIS was rampaging all over. I’ve defeated 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria. Yesterday we had the Prime Minister of Iraq in my office and he made a statement. He said, “Sir, I want to thank you. You have defeated ISIS.” I said, “Wait a minute. You say that. Nobody ever says that. Those people back there don’t say it. What do you mean by that?” He said, “You.” I said, “Do you mean Obama? Do you mean the United States?” “Sir, Obama, it was a disaster. When you took over ISIS was in 30% of our country. You came in and you defeated.” I said, “Will you please go public with that?” So he said, “I would,” he would. But it’s true. I mean, we defeated 100% of the caliphate and we turned it all around. We rebuilt the United States military, $2.5 trillion. We have a brand new beautiful military. And as I said with Israel, we got out of the Iran Nuclear Deal, which was such a horrible thing for Israel. But I asked a friend of mine, who’s a big fan of Israel, I said, “So what was the best? Golan Heights, Jerusalem capital? What was more important of the two?” Golan Heights, which they’ve been working on for 52 years, recognition of Golan Heights for Israel. 52 years, planes would fly in. They’d have summits every year or two, planes would fly in. They’d talk, they’d talk and keep talking. Two days later, the planes would fly out. Then they’d meet two years later. 52 years, they went through that. I got it done immediately. I said, “Which is more important, Golan Heights or Jerusalem Capitol?” I said, “Neither.” I said, “What do you mean neither?” He said, “The most important is when you withdrew from that horrible and very dangerous Iran Nuclear Deal. That was the greatest thing you did for Israel.” It’s very interesting. And I said, “I agree.” I actually said, “I agree.” We imposed the toughest ever US sanctions in Iran. And this week we invoked the snapback provisions to restore virtually all of the previously suspended UN sanctions. We snapped it back. It’s a good term. The founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, is dead. We killed him. And the world’s top terrorist, probably over 50 years the top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, is dead. He’s gone.
But the more success that we’ve achieved, the more unhinged the radical left has become. Anarchists and violent mobs have rioted in our Democrat run cities, attacking our police and tearing down statues. And as you know, I signed a clause. I got an old bill, you know when they used to do powerful things, when they knew what the hell they were doing. I took an old bill and I gave a nice, beautiful brand new executive order. It says very easily, could you imagine getting this today? You rip down a statue, a federal statute, you go to jail, prison, they use the term prison. You go to prison for 10 years. [inaudible 00:40:58]
And I remember there was a big march on Washington. They were coming in to knock a lot of statues down. They even had a Thomas Jefferson plan. That was in their planning. No thanks. George Washington. They were even thinking about Lincoln. Lincoln did sort of a pretty good job, right? But they were talking about anybody. I don’t even know if they knew what they were doing. They’re just wild and out of control. But I signed this 10 years in prison if you knocked down a statue. We have people right now in jail that are going to trial by the way. And that was from previous [inaudible 00:05:38].
But if you remember, that was a big thing two and a half months ago. You know when I signed it? Two and a half months ago. Two and a half months ago I signed it. We haven’t had a problem since. They say, “We want to knock down that statute, but 10 years. Let’s say. 10 years. That’s a lot of time. That’s a lot of time.” Which tells you that laws, if properly utilized, can stop all of this madness. And that’s why we have to give our great police back their dignity and their power. I’ve been endorsed by almost every police organization in the country. We just got the other day, Pat Lynch, the head of New York City Police, endorsed me. First endorsement he said, to the best of his knowledge, which is a lot of knowledge, the first time they’ve ever endorsed a candidate for president. That’s good. They don’t endorse. The first time ever. All the sheriffs in Florida. Dan can tell you all of the law enforcement in Texas, right? All of the law enforcement in Texas, Dan. So it’s good. And just about everywhere. We have tremendous support.
And you’re always going to have bad apples, by the way. You got some bad apples and you’re going to have it probably in this room. We might have one or two. But you have bad apples. But these are great people that do a phenomenal job that actually are appreciated by the public. By the public they’re appreciated and they’re loved and they’re respected and the public doesn’t want to happen what’s happening to our police. They took away their dignity. They took away their right to do the job that they want to do. And they’re doing the job now. And for me, they do the job. You look at most cities in our country, crime is actually down. You look at Chicago and you say, “How’s that possible?” You look at New York, what’s happened just in a short period of time, but we’re with them and they’re with us and they’ve done a fantastic job.
So the future of our country, and indeed our civilization, is at stake on November 3rd. Earlier this summer, murders rose by 29% in New York city, 33% in Philadelphia, 53% in Chicago, 133% in Minneapolis. These are all Democrat run places. These are Democrat run. I might say radical left Democrat in some cases. But these are people that don’t have any clue what they’re doing. They have no idea. I don’t even think they know that it’s bad what’s going on. You know, you’d almost say they’re trying to defend it. It’s incredible to hear them. But that’s why I launched Operation Legend, which has led to the arrest of 1,500 criminals since July. And the radical left spent four years trying to illegally overturn the last election. They’re still trying to overturn. Hillary Clinton, remember the Hillary Clinton. “Will you honor the election, the results of the election?” That was Hillary Clinton. And she should have asked that question to herself. She’s like a crazed lunatic. She’s a lunatic. She is something, I’ll tell you.
But somebody said, what’s the difference between Clinton and Biden? Should I say? Should I tell you? Well, Clinton is much smarter, but not a likable person. Joe is not nearly as smart, but he’s more likable. So I don’t know. Maybe I’d rather have the smarter person. Who cares about personality, right? But that’s the difference. Very simple, isn’t it? Huh? It’s a very simple thing. But that’s why we have to win. We have to win.
So now the Democrats are planning to permanently alter our political system so their control is never threatened again. They want to pack the court with radical left justices, abolish the filibuster, which frankly, I wish we did it because I said, “They’re going to do it. So we might as well get there first.” But I couldn’t get a couple of people to go along with me, but my attitude was, “Schumer’s going to do it.” They all said, “No, he’ll never do that. He’ll never do it.” Guess what? They’re doing it. They’re doing it. And as much as we’ve done, we’ve done more than anybody has ever done in three and a half years. But you know what? As much as we’ve done, we would’ve done more had we done that, because getting those extra 10 votes was almost impossible with these people. Almost impossible. So I wish we had done it. I wanted to do it, but we had some obstacle and obstacles.
[inaudible 00:46:49] grant. They want to grant mass amnesty for millions of people and citizenship they want to give to many million illegal aliens, probably about 11 million at least. And they want to abolish voter ID. They want to abolish voter ID to get into the DNC Convention last night, you needed an ID with your picture on it. Now what does that tell you about … To get in last night a friend of mine were saying, a friend of mine who happened to be there, I said, “Why were you there?” And a very political person, but shows me. He said, “Here’s the ID. It’s got my picture. It’s like the most incredible …” It’s a disgrace.
There’s only one reason they don’t want voter ID. And that’s because they want to cheat. That’s all. It cannot be anything else. I mean, you have it on everything. You have it on driver’s licenses. You have on everything just about. And the only one they don’t want it on is a vote, which the most important thing you have is your vote and they don’t want it. We have it in some states, Indiana, we have some great really voter ID. They want to abolish it where it is and never allow it to happen again. And that’s only a bad thing. That’s only a bad thing. To everyone in this room, your organization was formed at a time when conservatives led the fight to turn back the tide of communism abroad, communism here. It’s a very important organization. Now Americans must rally to turn back the radical left socialists and Marxists right here at home.
And you see that when you see these people rioting in Portland, where you see the anger, the craziness. These people are crazy. They’re crazy. And we won’t let it go on much longer by the way, because they’re supposed to police their own town, but we’re not going to let it go on much longer, because at some point we have to say, “Okay, you’ve had enough time to police your town.” And by the way, they have good police. Portland has good police, but again, they’re not allowed to do their job. If our opponents prevail, no one will be safe in our country and no one will be spared. No one will be spared, including the people that help fund. They think they’re going to be best pals. They’re not going to be best pals. They’ll be terminated just like many others.
I’m the only thing standing between the American dream and total anarchy, madness and chaos. And that’s what it is. I’m representing you. I’m just here. And I’m not sure it’s an enviable position, but that’s what it is. That’s what it is. When I made that statement, I was a little embarrassed by it because it sounds so egotistical. It’s an egotistical statement. And I was a little embarrassed, “I’m the only one.” But there was no other way to say it. We have to win the election. I’m the one. If we win, all of these things that we talked about, pro-life by the way, second amendment by the way. No. If we don’t win, it’s all gone. Okay? It’s all gone. And we mentioned, I have to mention life, all gone, second amendment, gone. It’s all gone. And many other things.
It will be a totally different country. And ultimately it will fail. It will fail. It can’t work. Economically it can’t work. We’ll go into a depression. And I’m very good at predicting these things. We will go into a depression, no different, maybe worse, no different than what happened in 1929. Your stocks will crash. Your 401ks will be worthless. This is going to happen. And the radical left will bring him along so quickly. I don’t know if you saw the Congress woman the other day where she said, “He will do whatever I tell him to do. He’s perfect. He will do whatever I tell him to do.” This is a Congresswoman. And Bernie Sanders is saying the same thing. Bernie Sanders is saying, “Look, we’ll just let him be in there. And then when he gets in, we’ll take it over.” That’s what’s going to happen. Because that’s where their party is. It’s become a sick ideology and we have to win. We will solve the problem very quickly, very easily. We have to win.
I don’t like this mail in ballot deal. They’re going to send out 51 million mail in ballots to people that haven’t requested that. Well, where are they going? Look at what happened in New York with Carolyn Maloney, a small race. And they declared her the winner. They don’t even have the ballots. It’s so mixed up. So fraudulent. And the only reason they declared her a winner is because I was right up. I said, “[inaudible 00:16:37], what’s going on?” Six weeks and they couldn’t count the votes. That’s one little race. What’s going to happen when you have 150 million votes and you have 51 million votes. Think of it. They’re going to send out 51 million. It could be higher than that. 51 million votes, no signature verification on many of them. In Nevada no signature verification. In New Jersey no signature verification. In New Jersey the governor passed it and didn’t even have the legislature approve it. He did it with an executive order, which is interesting. I mean, how do you do this?
But think of it. You don’t have to know anything about politics. You don’t have to know anything. Just common sense. Right? And a lot of you are great business people. 51 million. It’s not an absentee ballot where you request it, they send it, you send it back. It’s good. Like in Florida. 51 million people are going to get ballots to send in. So if it’s them, let’s say, that they’re doing it, and it’s mostly Democrat states that want it and their Democrat governors, they’re going to send them to certain areas, I guess. I guess. So people are going to be getting them and said, “Oh, all right. That’s fine.” And they’ll send them back. And some of them harvesting is-
They’ll send them back. And some of them, harvesting is allowed. That’s where you harvest them all together. In Nevada, harvesting’s allowed. So they’ll go all over the world and they’ll get people to sign them. “Hey, you used to be here.” They go all over the world to get … and they’ll harvest them, and they’ll drop thousands of them on a table just before the election. The other thing is, if you do this, you’ll never have an election count on November 3rd. You know, the way we enjoyed … well, we enjoyed, I’m not sure they did. They didn’t enjoy it. But the greatest evening ever was four years ago, right?
And that night, four years ago, that was an extraordinary night, but we knew that night. In fact, we really knew before 9:00, even though it took like 2:00 to call it. They refused to call Pennsylvania, which we had. If we lost every single vote, remember, there was two points, two left. Two points left. And if we lost every vote, we won Pennsylvania. They refused to call it. But they called Wisconsin. They called Michigan. They called places that haven’t done really very well for Republicans.
But if you look at Michigan now, we’re building many car plants. They hadn’t built car plants in 42 years. We’re expanding and building car plants. I mean, a lot of good things are going to happen. But you’re not going to be able to know the end of this election, in my opinion, for weeks, months, maybe never, maybe years, but maybe never.
Because once you go past the first week, you’re never going to know. What’s going to happen, they’re going to be taking them and hiding them. You saw what happened in Broward County in Florida, where they were, everyday, 10,000 gone, 10,000. Rick Scott, he was great the way he did that. And we helped them a lot. And Governor DeSantis, 10,000, 10,000 … if we would have waited a couple of days, you wouldn’t have had the same governor and you wouldn’t have had the same senator. We took very strong action, because it was obvious what was going on.
So now you’re going to have 51 million ballots, Tom. Where’s Tom? Where is he? Stand up, Tom, Tom Fitten. I don’t know … that’s Judicial Watch. I don’t know if everyone agrees, but I do. They do a fantastic job. I wish he had more help. I mean, honestly, I wish he had more help. But it’s not easy beating a system that’s been in place for many, many years. Many, many years it’s been in place and it’s sad. But 51 million votes, it’s being sent, and nobody knows who’s getting them.
And what happens if you send them to an old Democrat area, but not to an all Republican area? How do you win an election? This is really a very serious problem. This is beyond me. This is not to say me or, this is about all of us. This is about the country. This is about the country. It could happen the other way too. I mean, it could happen the other way too. I don’t think it will happen the other way. I don’t think it will. But I think this is a very disgraceful situation.
I really don’t think that you’re going to know anything on the evening, anything meaningful or anything real on the evening of November 3rd. I don’t think you’re going to know anything. You’re not going to know what happened. I don’t think you’ll two weeks later. I don’t think you’ll know four weeks later. And I don’t know what’s going to happen.
You know, there’s a theory that if you don’t have it by the end of the year, crazy Nancy Pelosi would become president. You know that, right? No, no, think of that. Think of that. There’s that mad theory too. You have heard that theory. Now I don’t know if it’s a theory or a fact, but I said, “That’s not good. That’s not good.” No, no. There is a theory that if you don’t have it, and that’s part of their whole act, that if you don’t have a choice, that the Speaker of the House becomes president. And that, I think, goes into effect either on the 20th or the first, and put that in the hopper, add that to everything else. It’s a disgrace.
They know it’s filthy dirty. Patterson New Jersey, Virginia, New York, many, many cases all over the country. Just recent, I’m talking about recently. And it’s not even the post office, although the mailmen become very popular people, I have to tell you that. That’s happened too. That’s happened too. Even mailmen. But think about what they’re doing to our country when they do this. We voted in World War I. We voted in World War II. And now we can’t vote anymore.
And that’s still a long time away. The pandemic is … if you look at Florida, if you look at Arizona, you look at California, those numbers are going down very rapidly. Many, many states have very little problem. You look at a map now, it’s largely really in good shape. I mean, I’m going to talk about it in my speech on Thursday. We’ve done a great job. We have not been recognized for what we’ve done. We’ve done a great job.
So in two and a half months from now, we’ll be in good shape. And we’re going to be in really, I think, potentially really good shape. And we can’t let this happen to our country. It’s called universal mail-ins, okay. They like the word universal, ’cause it explains it. I don’t know why. I personally don’t like the name. I just call it mail-in. But we want to distinguish it from absentee voting, which is okay, which has gone on for a long time. And we’re prepared for that. But we’re not prepared for this 51 million ballots. It will be a tremendous embarrassment to our country. It’ll go on forever, and you’ll never know who won. So I say that for you. I say it for the cameras, because I assume that goes out. But I will tell you that this is a very serious problem for a great democracy.
This is a very, very serious problem. And something has to be done about it. And they’re being sent almost as we speak. People are going to get ballots that had no intention of voting, that may be shouldn’t be voting. That may be aren’t. And they’d say the computers will pick it up. The computers are going to pick up nothing. They’re going to pick up nothing. You’ll have double voting, where they send in a ballot and then they’ll go and vote. That’s going to be a big problem. They’ll send in their ballot and then they’ll vote too. They’ll send in the ballot and then they’ll vote. What are the chances that some state’s so efficiently run? “Oh gee, you can’t vote. We just got your ballot last night at 7:00.” I mean, think of how ridiculous it is, right, common sense. I say this for the media. This will be the greatest catastrophe, one of the greatest catastrophes in the history of our country. That’s how serious it is. And they also think I’m trying to steal an election, just the opposite. I want the fair results of an election.
So the damage that they inflict will not just last a year or an election cycle, it will echo for generations, and we may never be able to escape, no matter how great our future leaders. We may never, ever escape from the damage that will be inflicted if the radical left takes over the presidency. We may never be able to. Remember the Supreme Court, but we may never be able to do it. It’ll be too late. The country will go down so far that you’ll never ever, I don’t care who you are, be able to bring it back.
There’s now a major American political party that supports decriminalizing illegal border crossings, abolishing cash bail. You kill somebody, no bail. They want to close all prisons, outlaw American energy, confiscate your guns, force taxpayers to finance late term abortion. They want to ban charter schools, abolish school choice, destroy our beautiful suburbs. I have done more for suburbia, where they talk about the suburban woman, “Will she vote for Trump?” If she doesn’t, I mean, what is she doing? They want to force low income housing into suburbia. And now the one that wants to do it is Cory Booker.
Cory Booker’s a disaster. You saw him running for president. He eventually quit when he started getting below 1%. How about all these people? How about Kamala? Kamala runs, she’s sort of one of the favorites. And she goes from 15 to 13 to 12 to nine to seven, five, four. About one, she got out. She didn’t even get to Iowa. She never got there. She didn’t want to take a vote. That’s how bad she was. Don’t you want to pick a person that’s gone in the opposite direction? I mean, seriously. That’s like a free poll. But there’s something that’s not good going on there. I don’t think it was a good choice. It was my number one draft pick. I did say that. They said, “How do you like the choice?” I said, “That was my number one draft pick.” But I meant from my standpoint. But think of it. She was one of the favorites and she went down like a rock. So it’s one of those things.
I believe one of the worst things going on now is the abolition of police, or even the partial abolition of police. So we have to expose this dangerous left-wing movement. We must defeat it, and with an optimistic vision for America’s future, we can be greater than ever before. We will be greater than ever before. With your help, that’s exactly what we’re going to do. We’ll once again build the greatest economy in history. We had it. We had to let it go to save millions of lives, and now we’re building it again. We’ll fully restore America’s manufacturing independence, bring home our critical supply chains, and permanently end our reliance on China.
We’re going to lower drug prices. We’re going to lower drug prices at a level that’s never been lowered before. I’m the only president in 51 years that lowered last year, drug prices went down a little bit, not much, but a little bit. But under Obama and Biden, they went up 52%. We’ll create a healthcare system that protects vulnerable patients, lowers costs.
We have transparency. It’s already done. It’s approved. It kicks into effect in January. This is going to lower your hospital stays, your doctor bills, gives you more choice and controls, and we’re going to deliver the highest quality care that our great American patients and people and seniors deserve.
We’ll provide school choice to every parent in America. We’ll appoint more conservative judges and justices. We will protect religious liberty, defend the lives of the unborn, uphold free speech, and safeguard the second amendment and your right to keep and bear arms. So important, right?
We’ll restore patriotic education to our schools. I mean, what they’re teaching students today is incredible. They come home, it’s like a different world. What is it? 1619 now, all of a sudden they changed. Now they’re thinking about making another change, because they don’t like that. But I don’t know. So I guess, 1492 Columbus discovered America. And that’s what we all … 1492 Columbus discovered America. That’s what it was. Now they want to get that, and poor Columbus. They’re ripping those … poor Christopher.
Except in one tough Italian neighborhood in New York, they didn’t get away with it. Did you see that? Did you see it? The anarchists said, “Let’s get the hell out of here. This is dangerous.” The anarchists left. That was one very tough, great area. We love that area. I know it very well. They started surrounding it. They were all set. They had the ropes going, the whole deal. And all of a sudden they said, “Let’s get out of here.” Great. Christopher Columbus, can you believe it? Christopher Columbus. We will restore patriotic education to our schools and teach our children to love their country, honor our history, and respect our great American flag. Thank you.
So this is the vision we believe in. And with your help, your talent, and you have incredible talent in this room, and your devotion, this is the bright future, not the dark future that you saw last night and for the last four days. This is a bright future that we will deliver for all Americans. I promise you this. As long as I am the president of the United States, I will fight with every ounce of energy and strength. And I have no doubt that our country will be greater than ever before. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. It’s a great honor. Thank you. Thank you very much.
From Detroit down to Houston and New York to LA, where there’s pride in every American heart, and it’s time we stand and say, that I’m proud to be an American, where at least-
Thank you very much. This is really great. We love this state. We won this state. I don’t know if you know what’s going on outside, but that’s … Right, Lou? That’s as many people as you can possibly have all the way back. How did you get in? That’s my question. I know you’re special friends of a group of people that have done a really good job, and I want to thank you very much for being here. But Pennsylvania has been very important to me. I went to school in Pennsylvania, as you know, college, and I love it. Please sit down. And by the time I finished, I’m going to have a nice sunburn right here. This is good. Where’s my sunblock?
But I want to thank everybody. In 75 days, we’re going to win this state. We’re going to win four more years. They’ve had us under siege, and we beat them, and we beat them, and we keep beating them. But I’ll tell you, I’ve never seen anything … No president should have to go through what we’ve gone through. No president. Should never happen. And I watched President Obama last night, and I watched him talking about everything, and I had to put it out. I said, yeah, but he spied on our campaign, and he got caught. That’s about as bad a thing as you can imagine. If that happened to another campaign on the other side, they would have had 25 people in jail for many years already. Many, many years. It’s a disgrace.
But in three years, and what we’ve done in just this short period of time, there’s been no administration that’s accomplished what we’ve accomplished, and that’s despite pandemics and despite all of the opposition and all of the witch hunts, the phony witch hunts. No administration has done what we’ve done. We’ve secured our borders, brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt our military, wiped out the ISIS caliphate 100%, killed our terrorist enemies, achieved American energy independence, and guess what? We’re just getting started. That’s just a small part of it. That’s a small part of it.
At stake in this election is the, and you know this, you know it, and I mean it, and I’ve never meant it more. At stake in this election is the survival of our nation. It’s true. Because we’re dealing with crazy people in the other side. They’ve gone totally stone cold crazy. You know, you look at Hillary. She was a lot smarter than Joe. But I’ll tell you, there was a certain sense of sanity four years ago. These people have gone insane, and they’re radical left, and you look at some of the things happening in these Democrat- run cities, which we could solve in two minutes. All they’d have to do is call us, right? Our great ex-congressman. All they have to do is … And thank you for being here. But all they have to do is call us. We’ll be in there in two minutes, and we’ll take care of the problem.
Joe Biden is a puppet of the radical left movement that seeks to destroy the American way of life. They don’t understand, and probably when it happened, they’d say, what did we ever do? Joe Biden has pledged to hike your taxes by $4 trillion in the largest tax hike in history. And they’re going to waste the money on the Green New Deal, the Green New Deal. You know what you get out of that? Nothing. Nothing except debt and death. They want to eviscerate the Second Amendment. They want to take away your guns. They want to take away your guns. Well, you remember that, just that one point alone, and they want to take away your guns. So who’s going to vote for that? I mean, we want our Second Amendment. I’ve held it strong, and you think it was easy? I’ve held it totally strong.
Give free healthcare to illegal aliens. You don’t get free healthcare? Expand deadly sanctuary cities. Force taxpayers to subsidize late-term abortion. Shut down the energy fields of Pennsylvania. They want to shut them down. No fossil fuels. No fossil fuel. Texas isn’t too happy, either. Go to Texas. I just left Texas a little while ago, two weeks. I said, they don’t want energy, they don’t want guns, and they don’t want religion. A guy stands up, says, “Not going to win Texas!” But you have the same thing, because you do a big, you’re a big fracking state. You want to see your taxes go up? Stop fracking. Doesn’t hurt you at all, fracking. They want to throw up windmills that are going to ruin your houses. Put up a big windmill. You walk out your door. You’ll see those big monsters churning. But even that they don’t want to do. I don’t think they want to do anything. I think they want to close your businesses.
But just remember, Second Amendment. They’re going to take it away. As sure as you’re sitting or standing. They’re going to take it away from you. The Second Amendment. Don’t let it happen.
Close down charter schools. Eliminate school choice. So important. Abolish the suburbs. They want to put low-income housing in the suburbs. So the American dream … And by the way, we have a lot of minority groups that live in the suburbs. African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, all did phenomenally last year with jobs. Best jobs we’ve ever had in the history of our country, the best economy we’ve ever had. But they’re a big part of the suburbs. And they want to put low income housing in the suburbs at a level that they’ve never done it before. And it’s been a very … Look, this has been going on for 20 years. I terminated the regulation that did that. They said, “Well, we can change that.” I said, “No, let’s terminate it.” People have to aspire to go there. They want to aspire to live in the suburbs.
They want to abolish cash bail, releasing 400,000 criminals onto our streets. Think of no … No more cash bail. Look at what happened in New York. Cuomo ended cash bail. Cuomo. That wasn’t even DeBlasio that did it. It was Cuomo, the governor. He ended it in New York, and now the crime rate has gone through the roof. The speaker at Biden’s convention, proudly declared, we’re talking about abolishing the police. We’re talking about abolishing ICE, and we’re talking about abolishing prisons. And that’s, the only thing they’re not abolishing are taxes because your taxes are going to go up at a level that you’ve never even heard of before.
If you want a vision of your life under Biden presidency, think of the smoldering ruins in Minneapolis, the violent anarchy of Portland, the bloodstained sidewalks of Chicago, and imagine the mayhem coming to your town and every single town in America. You’re not going to have law and order. Do you notice? And I shouldn’t say it because he’ll put it in his speech, if he can read it, which I doubt. But they’ll put it in there tonight. I shouldn’t say it because he’s going to speak later. He’s going to have a good audience. People are going to find out what the hell’s going on. I see he hasn’t answered a question since, they just said … Did you see it on the newscasts? Since July 17th. Hasn’t taken a question from the fake news back there. No, think of it.
I take about a hundred questions a day. These people. It’s one thing I’ve learned, the people heading these other countries, whether it’s President Xi of China, Putin of Russia, Erdogan, Turkey, any of them, Kim Jong Un, North Korea. Remember we’re going to be in war with North Korea? Remember? It’s going to be a war? Right, congressman? There’s going to be a war. If Trump’s, oh, we’re going to have a war. No, it would have been a war if you had Hillary Clinton. Would’ve been a war if Obama were allowed to stay any longer. He thought there was going to be a war. Where’s the war? I don’t see the war. Maybe things happen. You don’t know. But there’s been no war. Nobody killed. He would have lost 25, 30 million people. They don’t say that. They say a hundred thousand people. No, no. Seoul is 32 million people, and it’s right next to the cannon fire. And we have a good relationship with him. I have a good relationship with him. You know, when I say that, isn’t that terrible? They say. No, it’s not terrible. It’s great. It’s great. I have a relationship.
President Obama said when I sat down that first meeting, right? In the White House. He said it was the biggest problem we had. North Korea. And you would have had a big problem, would have been a hell of a war. Tell you right now. You’d probably be in that war right now. So when I say that we got along and we’ve met, everyone says, oh, that’s so terrible. No, it’s a good thing. It’s a good thing. Not a bad thing. It’s a good thing. Doesn’t mean bad things don’t happen, but it’s a good thing.
There’s only one thing standing between your family and the radical left wing mob, and that’s your vote this November. This is a very important … I feel like I’m a wall. You know, we built the wall on the Southern border. We’re going to have 300 miles by two weeks from now, even less, 300 miles. And by the end of the year, we’ll be up to almost 500 miles, and then we’re going to go on a little bit further, some areas that are loose, a little bit loose. We found out. We’re going to put a little bit more, about 536 miles going up at a record clip. It’s doing phenomenally well.
If you want mobs and criminals, you got to vote Democrat. Look, because that’s what it’s about. They don’t talk about law and order. Now, I’m bringing it up now, but they haven’t, I haven’t seen anybody get up … I got just the other day endorsed by all the sheriffs of Florida, all the law enforcement. I got endorsed by Pennsylvania. I got endorsed by Texas, by Ohio. I think everybody, I don’t know. How can you endorse somebody else? How could law enforcement endorse somebody else?
We gave all of our ex-army equipment. We have tremendous surplus equipment, and it was sitting in warehouses all over the United States. Hundreds of millions of dollars, I distributed it to the police, whereas Biden and Obama, they didn’t want to do that because they said, no, no, no. It makes the police look too strong. I want the police to look strong. You got to look strong. And a lot of it was protective equipment.
If you want jobs and you want a lot of police and you want a lack of crime, if you take away New York and Chicago and some of these terrible cities that you see about with the crime, the crime is so bad. I left New York four years ago, and I could see, because he’s a terrible mayor, I could see there were things that were happening that were bad. He’s no Rudy Giuliani, I can tell you that. But I could see things were happening. But the last six months, seven months, it just exploded. It’s incredible. Crime up 368%, 368%. It’s crazy. It’s crazy.
But if you want law and order, and I can say it, sometimes they’ll say, sir, say it gently. People want to hear gentle. They don’t want, say it gently. Don’t say law and order. Say, if you’d like law and order and safety. Nah, I can’t do that. If you want law and order, you’ve got to have law and order. You can’t have what’s happening in Portland. Did you see the kid get whacked the other day? Just whacked, like he was a piece of garbage? I mean, who could take it? We don’t want that, and pretty soon we’re going to have to send in our people because we’re supposed to wait to request?
Now, I don’t know if they’re embarrassed or what, but these Democrat cities, they’re out of control. They have none. Look at Seattle, where she said, no, we want a summer of love. I mean, this woman is crazy, and they would have never taken back Seattle except they knew we were going in the next day. That’s the only reason they even did it. So tonight we have slow Joe will speak at the Democrat Convention, and I’m sure that he’ll just knock them dead.
And he’ll remind us that he was born in Scranton. But you know, he left like 70 years ago, right? He left a long time ago. He wasn’t one … I view it differently. He’d say he was born here, but he left when he was like eight, nine, or 10. So he left, 68 years ago, he left. Long time ago. So I view it differently. He wasn’t born here. He abandoned Scranton. Okay? His family had something to do with that. You know, his parents. But he loves Scranton. I mean, he keeps talking about, I was born in Scranton. I lived in Scranton. Yeah, for a few years, and then he left for another state. You know the state. But this Scranton stuff. That’s why I figured I’d come here and explain to you one thing. But I think you people know it better than I do. He left! He abandoned Pennsylvania. He abandoned Scranton. He was here for a short period of time and he didn’t even know it. And today it’s amazing. It goes around in a circle. He still doesn’t know it.
But he spent the last half century in Washington selling out our country and ripping off our jobs and letting other countries steal our jobs, Mexico, China, all of them stealing our jobs. He’s been there for 47 years, and now he’s going to come in and make a change. I don’t think so. His son who walked out with $1.5 billion to manage. That’s billions of dollars a year, and the son didn’t even have a job before that. And I asked the Wall Street people, tell me, is that possible? Smartest people, top people on Wall Street. They say, can’t happen. It can’t happen. The smartest people, the people that do get money from every country, from everybody, they say can’t happen. He walked out of there in 10 minutes with $1.5 billion. You explain that one, right?
And then if they want to look at him, nobody looks at him. Nobody looks at Ukraine. He gets 83,000 a month and a $3 million upfront payment because of his great expertise in energy. But he had none. And he even admitted, no, I don’t know anything about energy. But he goes onto an energy company. It’s millions of dollars, 83, it’s actually double that because it was him and some guy that knew less than he did. And is that okay? Yeah? Is it okay when Joe Biden goes and says, a billion dollars, you’re not getting it unless you get rid of those prosecutors. You talk about quid pro quo, right? That’s your quid pro quo. And they did, quid pro quo. Right? And they did, they got rid of the prosecutors. And then he’s called. He says, now you’re getting your money. Okay?
Figure this. How about if that’s a Republican doing that, what happens to that republican? It’s over. It’s a disgrace. But it’s changing slowly, too slowly, as far as I’m concerned. Joe Biden is no friend of Pennsylvania. He’s actually, for the reasons we just said, he’s your worst nightmare. Biden supported every single globalist attack on Pennsylvania workers, NAFTA, China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which built China into a power, TPP, Korea, the horrible, ridiculous Paris Climate Accord, which stripped our nation of its energy, and the so-called Clean Power Plan. The only good thing about it was the name. It was a horrible, unfair deal, horrible for you and horrible for Pennsylvania. They want to take your power away. You know what your power is? Your power is the billions of dollars you make in going deep into the earth and taking out-
As you make on going deep into the earth and taking out what you have to take out. Everything you want, from fracking. You don’t realize how big a fracking state. Does anybody know how big fracking is? You’re not going to be allowed to frack anymore. You’re not going to be allowed. No oil, no nothing. No oil, no gas, no nothing. Just think of that. What would happen is, well, first of all, many of you, I guess 600,000, 670,000 lose their jobs. No money, no oil, higher taxes. Your stock market would crash. If they get in beyond fracking, if they get in, you’ll have your 401ks, which are setting records, by the way, stock market just hit a new high.
And don’t forget, we’ve been going through this horrible plague from China. It just hit a new high. So think of that. It’s incredible. But your 401ks. How many people have 401ks here? Good. That’s a lot. That’s a lot. How about if they went down to like 10% of what they are now? Because that can happen. That can happen. And it will happen if we’re stupid and we don’t go out and vote and secure your ballot. Absentee ballots are good. But the stuff where they take millions and millions of ballots and send them all over the place, we’ll grab it and we’ll just put them in a big pile there. Everyone grab it. It’s a disgrace. Even common sense tells you that. Look at New York, look at what happened in New Jersey. Look at what happened in Virginia. Look at what happened. I won’t go through the details, you know the story.
They have no control whatsoever. In New Jersey, 20% of the ballots were defective, fraudulent, 20%. And that’s because they did a good job. Okay? So this is just a way they’re trying to steal the election and everybody knows that. Because the only way they’re going to win is by a rigged election. I really believe that. I saw the crowd outside. For every sign we had for Trump Pence, every single sign. And that’s not that atypical in Texas. We had people on the highways, on the roadways, we’re driving to some oil well where we gave a speech. It was a 20 minute drive, between the plane and that oil well, there were tens of thousands of people and they had the signs, Trump and Trump Pence and flags, American flags.
When the other side does show up, which is rarely, they never have an American flag. I can always tell if there’s a group of people. You never see an American flag. The fake news would tell you that. But you never see, but they don’t put it down, they’ll tell you that personally, but they won’t write it. But you never see an American flag. It’s an amazing thing. But if you look outside today, is it a hundred to one, 200 to one? And then you’ll read tomorrow that Biden was well-represented. He wasn’t well, there were hardly anybody there.
Every once in a while, I’d see a Biden that’d be waving to the people. I’d see Biden, I’d say, “Wow.” I waved to her anyway. Who cares? But was it a hundred to one? It’s just massive. And you’ll read tomorrow that he had a massive crowd also. Pennsylvania lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs after NAFTA and China’s entry into the WTO. And that was a vote and courtesy of sleepy Joe. Biden looked American labor into the eyes and took care of dues, their union endorsements and their votes. The unions, I mean the unions have to be more reasonable. They have to be more reasonable. And we love the unions. We love non-union. I’ve had it all. I built every building I built in New York was with unions and unions are fine.
A lot of Republicans don’t want me to say that, but I’ll tell you, unions are fine. Tell them to keep their dues down, please. But they’re fine. And you have unions here. You have non-unions. What I talk about is the worker. They treated our workers horribly. We lost our jobs to foreign lands. Our workers got fired, whether they were in the unions or not. Then he sold out and he passed the Cadillac tax. You know what that is, on union healthcare plans? Attack their energy jobs and sent their factories to China. And now he’s back begging for their votes. And it’s like a custom, Democrats. Except with me. I came in, I got so many union votes. I get far more. I mean, you’ve seen it. A couple of people either lost their job or came very close, that were unbeatable, because they let it charge for the Democrats for crooked Hillary last time.
They let her charge. And the people in the union didn’t want that. They didn’t want Hillary, they wanted Trump. And we had union revolts, we call them. They revolted. But these guys right here, are you all union people? I can tell. Are you union? It’s good, right? It’s fine. That’s fine. Look at that. You got a hand. Certain parts of the country, they wouldn’t be as happy, but that’s okay, right? And it’s great. But they were not happy. And you know what was happening? They were not happy when the bosses got endorsed by the Democrats. American labor will vote for Trump Pence in 2020. They’re all saying that. And this area is going to be an incredible area. This used to be all Democrat until I came along. Until I came along, this was Democrat. This was heavily union. It was Democrat. It was everything.
But they liked Trump and I’m going to never let you down and they will let you down. They will let you down. First of all, the country will be let down because the country, you will see a crash like you’ve never seen before. And as good as those stock market numbers are, there’s a headwind. They headwind is that if he won, the market’s going to crash. The Green New Deal, all of the different things, socialized medicine, that’s what they want. It’s socialized medicine. No doctor, no plan. Obama lied about it 28 times. Do you remember he said, “You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan.” It wasn’t true. 28 different times, they have them. For the last four years, we’ve been reversing Biden’s betrayals and delivering historic wins. For the people of Pennsylvania, your state lost over 50,000 manufacturing jobs when Biden was vice president. In my first three years, Pennsylvania gained 14, 000 jobs, manufacturing, and going up at a level that nobody’s ever seen before. We’ll catch all of those jobs that were lost.
They said manufacturing jobs will never come back. Remember, you need a magic wand. Where’s the magic wand? Well, we have the magic wand. My first week in office, I withdrew from the Trans-Pacific partnership. It would have been totally destructive to your jobs. It would have been a horror show. I withdrew from the one-sided Paris climate accord, which would have cost us so many billions of dollars. And all it would have done is made the competition even tougher all over the world. I believe it was designed to hurt the United States and to get jobs away from us and companies. I stood up to China’s rampant cheating, plunder, and theft. I repealed that horrible tax. So many taxes. How many taxes did I repeal? I’m getting a list of them now, I’ll have it for you for the next meeting. Because I’ll be back to Pennsylvania, that I promise. And I’m standing up to the special interests and to big pharma. Weeks ago, I signed four historic directives to dramatically reduce the cost of prescription drugs.
Think of it. You know what I did? I signed, as you know and as you’ve seen, I guess, but other countries have sometimes 10% of what we pay for the same exact pill, same drug, same prescription drug. And I signed a deal that we get, it’s not signed by the drug companies, they hate it. They’ll take in advertising. Whenever you see bad ads on me from drug companies, just remember one thing, that means your prices are coming down. That means your prices. But it’s called Favored Nations, Favored Nations. We were the least favorite nation in the whole world. We paid the highest price. So I signed if Germany has an example, pays 25 cents for a pill and we pay $3 for the exact same pill, we pay 25 cents also. Now what means is they’re going to go up, we’re going to come way down.
We could drop drug prices by 50, 60 or 70%, at a level that has made them very angry. And rebates too, I ended rebates. Rebates go to you. Nobody else would have done that. They could have done that a long time ago. Biden could have done it. He didn’t know what it meant. But I will tell you, most people do know what, but they can’t do it because big pharma is the most powerful group. And I guess they say, number one, is it number one, mister? But you didn’t take any money from big pharma, right? I bet you didn’t. I’ll bet you didn’t, my man. I ended the NAFTA disaster and I signed USMCA in Deloitte. USMCA is phenomenal. And it’s going to keep your companies from moving to Mexico and other places. After years of building up other nations, we’re finally building up our nation and we are finally doing something that I’ve been talking about for years. We’re finally putting America first, and I’ve done that right from the beginning.
We’re honored to be joined today by some incredible warriors that were really fantastic to me and friends of mine, but they really fight. These Pennsylvania people are fighters, in case you haven’t noticed. Representative Scott Perry. Scott, where’s Scott? Thank you, Scott. Great job, Scott. The warriors. Lloyd Smucker. Lloyd, thank you. Thank you, Lloyd. John Joyce. John, thank you. Great job. Great job. And a friend of mine and a great, great man. He would have been here forever if he decided to, but he decided maybe it was time to do something else. But this was a fighter like no other fighter. And those three other gentlemen will attest, right? Our friend Lou Barletta. Lou. And they’re shouting. I’m saying this for the media. They’re shouting “Lou”, they’re not booing. They’ll say, “He stood up and he got booed horribly. It was a horrible embarrassing.” No, that’s what they do. They’re fake. Thanks also to our congressional candidates, Jim Bognet. Jim, oh, look at him. I’ve heard good things, Jim. Is it easy out there on the stump?
Doing great. You’re going to win.
Good, good. And you’re going to win, Jim. You’re going to win. And Lisa Scheller. Lisa, thank you very much. Great job. I hear you too are doing really good. If you have any problems, call Lou, he’ll help you. Let me also thank my campaign state chairwoman, Bernie Comfort. Where are you? Thank you very much Bernie. Thank you, Bernie. Great job you’re doing. How are we doing in Pennsylvania? Okay?
Okay.
I think so. I think so. If we don’t, they did a lot of manipulation. Also, a friend of mine for a long time and a great friend of his father and maybe his grandfather. I don’t even know. I hate to say that because it makes me sound a little bit older than I feel. I feel young. State GOP Chairman, Lawrence Tabas. What a great family. I miss Dan Tabas. You know that? Dan Tabas, what a great man he was. I don’t know if you know him, but he started out with about 2 cents and he ended up being a rich man. And he employed a lot of people and he was a real friend of mine. That was long before I ran for politics. He didn’t like many people, but he liked Trump. Right? People would go, “He’s a rough guy.” People would go up to him and say, “Hi, Dan. How you doing?” He became a very successful guy. And he’d look out and say, “I don’t want to talk to anybody. I just want to talk to Trump.” I like that kind of a guy, right?
But he was a fantastic man, actually. He was a good man. Before the China virus invaded our shores, we built the greatest economy in history, nothing even close. We added seven million jobs nationwide, including 209,000 new jobs in Pennsylvania. By the way, in the last three months, right Bernie? Over nine million jobs, an all time record. This is now during and hopefully closing moments of the pandemic. You notice how they, anytime there’s a good country, they like to compare, because we’ve done an incredible job. You look at our mortality rates, you look at all the things. But they like to compare us to others. So they were talking about New Zealand. New Zealand, it’s over, it’s over for Zealand. Everything’s gone. They’re beautiful. They had a massive breakout yesterday. South Korea, it’s over, it’s over. Big breakout yesterday. It’s a tough deal.
We’ve done a great job. We’re a big, big country. And maybe this is popular to say, maybe it’s not, I don’t care. Because based on the crowd outside, it looks to me like we’re going to win this thing. I think, by the way, by a lot. But your governor has you on a shut down like, what’s going on? How did they all get out there? And they were not socially distanced, I can tell you. We’ll have to. On the way back, they’ll still be there because they’re incredible people. But what is he doing? He’s got you in a shutdown, still. Shut down wolf. He can’t do this. He’s going to destroy your soul. What happens is depression, anxiety problems with family members, drugs, heart attacks, obesity. I mean, what is he doing? It’s more dangerous than the virus.
He’s got to open this state up. You know when he’s going to open it up? No, I know what he’s doing. Because a lot of them are doing it, doing it in the great State of North Carolina, right? They’re doing it in North Carolina. But they’re doing it in a lot of different areas. They’ve got to open this state up and you have to do it, right? This wonderful, incredible Commonwealth. Right? I would call it a Commonwealth. Do you ever mind of they call it a state? No, call it Commonwealth. Whatever the hell you want to open it up. And what is he doing? What is he doing? So the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, we’re going to get it open. And I know when he’s going to do it. You know when it is? November 4th. November 4th, he’s going to say, “Well, we’re going to open it up.”
Then your results are no better than other states, by the way. It’s not like, “Oh gee, this is great.” Michigan has it closed down and North Carolina has a closed down, and this Commonwealth has a closed down. It’s a very sad thing to see. And the results are not good. The results, it’s not like, “Oh, this is wonderful.” The results in some of these places, as worse than those that are open. And you have other states. I mean, you look at the country, it’s really, we have states we’re thriving, we’re thriving. And there’s no shutdown. It’s enough. We shut it down because we had to, we didn’t know anything about what was happening. We shut it down. We learned a lot. Protect our seniors, et cetera, et cetera. You’ve all heard it.
We learned a lot, protect our seniors, et cetera, et cetera. You’ve all heard it. But we learned a lot. Then we opened it up and now we have a big V. Remember they said the V will never happen? We have a big beautiful V. We enacted the largest financial relief package in American history. And through the Paycheck Protection Program, we saved nearly two million Pennsylvania jobs. We’ve also delivered nearly … That’s right. Two million jobs. We delivered nearly $11 billion in direct support to Pennsylvania families. And over the past three months, we’ve gained over nine million jobs. Nobody could even believe the numbers. And watch. The numbers will get better and better because we’re opening up.
And frankly, the Democrats should do it. They should do what’s right for the country. They know they should open. Wolf knows he should open. He knows that. And how about his person with her mother, right? With her mother? Where the mother was protected, but the other people weren’t. You had a massive number of deaths in nursing homes, but 95 year old mother as I read. And I said, “Well, that person will be gone very quickly.” And that person is still there. I would say that’s something that if somebody ever wants to run for the governor of Pennsylvania, that would be something good to use. So they took the mother out of harm’s way and then moved her back when everything was okay. And nobody says anything about it? There’s no firing?
Retail spending is now at an all time high. Who would have believed that? Auto production has gained 28%. Biden would terminate this unprecedented recovery. He wants to impose a permanent lockdown combined with a socialist takeover of the US economy. Did you hear him the other day? Lock it down. He wants to lock it down. So everything that we’ve gained over the last number of months, he wants to lock it down. No, we’re doing good. Florida’s going down substantially. Arizona, done a great job in Arizona. Texas going down. California is going down. They’d opened these states up and everybody wants to practice good hygiene. All of the different things. Do the masks. I mean, it’s just not going to hurt. Do them. Do them. You feel it, do them.
But these things, these places have to be opened up. But November 4th, you’ll open. Don’t worry about it. But that’s a long time from now if you think about it, right? That’s a long time for now. In Biden’s policy manifesto written with socialist Bernie Sanders, Biden pledges to quickly outlaw American oil. He’s going to outlaw American oil, coal, American coal. He’s going to outlaw it. Natural gas, which is really an amazing form of energy, it clean, by mandating net zero carbon emissions from all homes and buildings within nine years and from all power plants by 2035. So he wants to basically get rid of all fossil fuels.
And you know, I know everything about energy. I know so much about energy. Our new forms of alternative energy just aren’t powerful enough to power these massive plants and all of the things that are creating all of these jobs and all of this wealth for your state and for the country. This week in California, there were rolling blackouts because the radical Democrats have mandated impossible restrictions on energy production.
And I see again, the forest fires are starting. They’re starting again in California. I said, “You got to clean your floors. You got to clean your forests.” They have many, many years of leaves and broken trees. And they’re like, so flammable. You touch them and it goes up. I’ve been telling them this now for three years, but they don’t want to listen. The environment, the environment. But they have massive fires again in California. Maybe we’re just going to have to make them pay for it because they don’t listen to us.
We say, “You got to get rid of the leaves. You got to get rid of the debris. You got to get rid of the fallen trees.” You know when a tree falls, after 13 to 14 months, it becomes extremely dry. You look at some of these fires, they don’t really catch where the trees are growing because they’re wet. The water’s pouring up the tree. And they just don’t want to listen. They mocked us when I said that you got to clean your floors, just an expression. Clean the floors. And they have many, many years, decades of leaves, dry leaves. And that’s why they have it. There are other places, forest cities, they’re forests, they were developed in forests and they don’t have any problem, with more flammable trees than you have in California, but they just don’t want to do it.
Senior citizens were forced to sit in their homes with no air conditioning in the middle of the summer and Biden wants to eliminate power plants all across America. You had a problem over here. But think of that, if they do that, get used to no air conditioning. They probably don’t want that either. Under my administration, we ended the war on American energy and I put the miners back to work. We put them back to work. The miners are back to work now. I approved the Keystone XL and the Dakota Access Pipelines almost right at the beginning. I just approved them right at the beginning and a lot of jobs. And by the way, it’s a much cleaner form of transportation.
America is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. Think of that one. To protect our great steelworkers … Do you have a couple of … Any steelworkers here by the way? To protect our great steelworkers, I placed tariffs on nations that were dumping cheap, foreign steel all over the place. And we have created an incredible industry out of nothing. It was ready to go out. Within months, steel imports dropped by 26% and American steel production surged by 18 million tons, almost immediately. Biden abandoned the steel industry and saved other industries that were worthless, but he didn’t save the steel industry. We saved the steel industry. You wouldn’t have a steel industry right now.
When Joe Biden was vice president, the border was an open pipeline for criminals, gang members and cartels, flooding our schools with drugs. Under my administration, we ended the catch and release, horrible catch and release. You catch the criminal. You take their name. You say, “Is this right?” “We don’t have identification.” “Oh, that’s okay.” It’s like voting. They don’t want to have voter ID. Why? There’s only one reason the Democrats don’t want voter ID. You have ID for almost everything. You have your picture, everything nice, but not on a vote. Most important thing you can do is to vote. And voter ID, but they don’t want it. There’s only one reason they don’t want voter ID. And you know what that is, right? That’s really better. You guys all in favor, by the way, of voter ID? Everybody? If they weren’t, they wouldn’t be congressmen in good standing for very long. I’ll tell you that.
We stopped asylum fraud and we deported 20,000 gang members and 423,000 criminal aliens. We got them the hell out of our country. But if Biden is elected, all of this security will quickly vanish. Control of the border will be seceded to violent cartels and the left wing crazies who empower them. And you used to see these massive amounts of illegals coming up from Honduras, from Guatemala, El Salvador. They’d come up and it’d be just thousands of them. You don’t see that anymore. Mexico is putting … They have right now. They have for months, 27,000 of their soldiers on our Southern border. You got to do it. You got to do it. Mexico has been really working with us very well. I have to tell you the new president of Mexico, now he’s not so new. He’s been there a little while. But the president of Mexico has done a great job as far as I’m concerned, from the standpoint of our relationship and our relationship with Mexico.
In his joint manifesto with Bernie Sanders, Biden just called for a complete suspension of deportations, closing down detention facilities, ending border prosecutions. Think of this. Restoring and expanding catch and release, handing out free welfare to new arrivals, work permits for illegal crossers, and mass amnesty for all illegal aliens. Can you believe this? This is Bernie plus … I feel like Biden would be taken right. This is to show you how good a negotiate he is. Bernie took him left. It’s supposed to start and they’re supposed to meet a little bit left of center maybe, for them. For us it’s right of center. But Bernie actually took him left along with AOC plus three, right? AOC plus …
It’s another beauty. She’s the designer of the Green New Deal. She knows nothing about the environment. She probably never studied … Ask her. How many hours have you taken on the environment?
Biden wants to open your borders in the middle of the pandemic. Thank goodness we have that 300 miles of wall because you would have had a problem like you never would’ve seen before. I want strong borders and I want safe communities. If we don’t have borders … I was saying this from day one. If we don’t have borders, we don’t have a country. I imposed a travel ban on jihadist regions to keep terrorists out of our country. And it worked. And it got approved and the press said he failed. And they were right. The lower court failed. Your appeals court failed. And I won at the Supreme court. So they still say it failed because I lost it the first two courts. That’s how dishonest they are. They say he lost because I lost in the first two courts, but we won at the Supreme court. They forget to mention that fact.
Joe Biden has pledged to remove this ban, opening the flood gates to terror and terror hotspots, and increasing the number of refugees allowed into our country by 700%. That’s the manifesto of AOC and Bernie. Joe Biden and Kamala. She’s another beauty. Also strongly support the deadly sanctuary cities that have been so bad for you and everybody else’s. District Attorney in San Francisco, Kamala put a drug dealing illegal alien into a job and jobs program instead of into prison. Four months later, the illegal alien robbed a 29 year old woman, mowed her down with an SUV, fracturing her skull and ruining her life. We believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
After eight long years, Joe Biden and Barack Obama left America weak, disrespected, and endangered. We are respected again. We are a respected country again. They said that one of the leaders called up, top top leader of one of the countries. He asked me to call President Erdogan of Turkey, who I get along with very well. He said, “Sir, please, would you do me a favor? Call Erdogan.” I said, “Why can’t you do it?” He says, “You’re the only one he respects. You’re the only person he respects.” I tell you this story. I like telling very personal stories. But they did say that. “You’re the only one he’ll listen to.” I said, “Is that because of the United States?” They said, “No, it’s because of you.” So that’s not so bad. I might as well. I might as well tell you the stories because they won’t.
We’ve invested more than $2 trillion to rebuild our military. Our military is in the best shape it’s ever been and everything is made in the USA. And we revived the historic shipyard in a place called Philadelphia with hundreds and hundreds of new jobs. You know that. And we’ve just launched Space Force. I never talked about it on the campaign trail. Lou, right? I never talked about it. I’m the only one probably that ever ran for office in this country that’s achieved more than I said I would. I never talked about Space Force. I never talked about it. But I realized how important it was and we got it. A sixth branch. Think of that. Sixth branch. That’s a big deal. American rockets are once again sending American astronauts into space. We renewed NASA. It was a field of weeds. A field of weeds. President Obama closed it down. We’re not sending rockets up. And a lot of those rockets are paid by rich people. They like sending up rockets for whatever reason. They like it. I say, go ahead. You can pay us a little rent and you can use our property.
We withdrew from the disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, a horror show. The ISIS caliphate was destroyed. The founder and leader of ISIS, the animal known as Al- Baghdadi is dead. The world’s number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, is dead. Joe Biden voted for the war in Iraq. I kept us out of new wars. Everyone said, “Oh, Trump, it’s his … He’ll be in a war his first week.” Instead of that, I got you out of wars. We’re down to a minimum number in Iraq. Afghanistan will be down very shortly to 4,000 troops and that’ll come back shortly too. Syria, we took them all out other than where we kept the oil if that’s okay with you. We kept the oil. We have some back and keeping the oil. We should have kept the oil in Iraq too. Remember, I used to say, “Keep the oil. Don’t go in.” I’d say, “Don’t go into Iraq.” But I was a civilian. Nobody cared. I was like you. So nobody cares.
I want to get that mosquito out of here. I don’t like … They’ll say it’s cruelty to animals. I don’t know. No, it’s true. They were saying the other night, the shark. They were saying, “Oh, sharks. We have to protect them.” I said, “Wait a minute. Wait.” They actually want to remove all the seals in order to save the shark. I said, “Wait, don’t you have it the other way around?” That’s true. I’m not a big fan of sharks either. I don’t know how many votes am I going to lose? I have people calling me up, “Sir, we have a fund to save the shark. It’s called Save the Shark.” I say, “No thank you. I have other things I can contribute to.”
I recognized Israel’s true capital, opened the American embassy in Jerusalem, and recognized Israel and its sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Nobody else. They talked about it for years. For years and years, many, many presidents talked about the capital of Israel, Jerusalem. And they never did it. I did it. And Golan Heights, 52 years, they’ve been meeting on Golan Heights. I did it. Last week we reached a historic breakthrough in the Middle East, finalizing a groundbreaking agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates. People can-
… Israel and the United Arab Emirates. People can’t even believe it. Even the New York Times gave us a great editorial. They can’t even believe it. We passed veterans choice and veterans accountability for our great vets. Nobody’s done for the vets what I have. Nobody. Not even close. We love the vets. And federal workers who failed and mistreated our veterans now can be told, “You’re fired.” That’s accountability. We couldn’t fire them. We had sadists. We had thieves. We had some bad people. They let go of 9,000 people in the VA. They were bad people. They didn’t love our vets. Now they have to love our vets.
In a second term in office we will create 10 million jobs in the next year. We will hire more police. We will ban sanctuary cities. We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in the rule of law, not the rule of that horrible mob that you get to watch on television. We will provide school choice in every home. We’re going to let you have school choice. That’s a very important thing. The Democrats don’t want anything to do with school choice. We will lower the price of prescription drugs as I said. We will build and expand our energy infrastructure to a level that is even greater than what we have right now, and when I said before we’re number one, we’re number one by a lot, nobody thought we’d ever be number one. And we are energy independent, which is very nice.
As we’ve been doing, we will end our reliance on China and other countries for drugs and other things. We will make our critical drugs, medicines, and supplies, here in the United States. We will give tax credits to companies to bring jobs back to America, and if they don’t do it, we’ll put tariffs on those companies, and they’ll have to pay us a lot of money. So what are they going to do? They’re going to bring the jobs back.
In every action, every moment, and every decision I’m fighting for you. I’m fighting for Pennsylvania. A lot of people got rich and got powerful at your expense. Now these same liberal hypocrites want to open up borders and let violent mobs rule the streets while they live in Waldorf compounds in communities. They want to defund police while hiring private security. They want to let rioters burn churches while jailing you for praying in your church. They want to abolish school choice while sending their children to the best private schools in the land. They want to cancel you. Totally cancel you. Take your job, turn your family against you for speaking your mind, while they indoctrinate your children with twisted, twisted, worldviews that nobody ever thought possible.
You notice they’re not knocking down statues and monuments anymore because when I saw what was happening I took an old law and I signed a nice new executive order. Then I explained, “10 years, if you knock down a statue, federal statue, or monument.” They were all set to March on Washington. “We’re going to knock down some nice statues,” and then they said, “You know what? Let’s not march.” The march ended very quickly. There was no more marching. They said, “You know, 10 years that’s a long time.” That’s a long time to knock over a statue that many people love and many people don’t. There’s a way of getting it down. You do it through a legal process. It’ll go quickly if it’s right.
Joe Biden is the candidate of these privileged liberal hypocrites who hold you and your values in disdain. But you can send them all a thundering message on election day by voting for Trump-Pence. Do we love our vice president too? Do we love our vice president? I’ll tell you, I watched Kamala last night and I said, “I’ll take Mike.” I’ll take Mike by a lot. He’s been a great vice president actually. Pennsylvania is the state that gave us the Declaration of Independence, Valley Forge, Gettysburg, and generations of American patriots. Just like you. You’re patriots. You love this country. That’s why you’re here. You’re sitting in this boiling, crazy hot, sun. But you’re smarter than me because with you it’s on the back of your head. With me, I’m going to go home and my wife is going to say, “What happened? You look like a lobster.” Look the sun. This is great.
I want to look like Lou, nice and dark. Right Lou? But with Lou it’s a little easier I think. This is the state where workers got their hands dirty mining the coal and forging the steel that raised up the mightiest nation in the history of the world. We’re going to be stronger than ever before. Remember that. We are already. We are going to be stronger than ever before, and that’s happening right now. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and you know this. Look, together we’re taking back our country. But I was just thinking as I said “stronger”, they want to come in and raise your taxes.
They want to come in and put regulations on all of your factories, and all of your jobs, and all of your personal things. You know, little things, and they laugh at it when I say it. The light bulb. Those new expensive light bulbs. I said, “What happened to the old ones? They’re better.” They said, “They were mandated out.” I said, “Why?” Nobody could explain why. I said, ” We’re letting them back. The light bulbs are back.” Dishwashers. They have dishwashers they don’t give you any water. They give you not enough water, so they’re lousy. So what do people do? They press the button again, and again. No water. I let them have lots of water.
We just got back from Whirlpool in Ohio. They’re thriving now because of what I did to competition from other countries. I tariffed them, and Whirlpool now went from a company that was just about over to a company that’s thriving. Sink faucets, shower faucets. I won’t say the third element of the bathroom because they always just bring that up, so I won’t say that but you know what I’m talking about. They don’t allow water. You go into a new hotel. You turn on the water. There’s no water. I opened it up. I said they could have as much water.
I mean does Pennsylvania have a problem with water? No. Yeah you have a problem with water. You have too much of it. Right? You have too much water. You got to get rid of it. So why are we having restrictors? They have restrictors on, so I took it off. These are little things. I tell you about them. A lot of people appreciate them. A lot of people don’t know about it. But now you could go out, buy a light bulb for a tiny fraction of the cost that’s better. Won’t last as long, but it’s better. It’s better light. Makes me look much better. That’s a very important, it’s a very important thing.
But you can buy now faucets where water actually comes out, and so instead of having it like on for many times longer … Actually when I take a shower, I can have water hit my hair instead of drop, drop. It’s hard enough my hair without that. So now we can actually have water pouring out of our shower heads. Okay? So a lot of good things. We’ve done a lot of things that nobody talks about, nobody writes about, but it’s about quality of life, and I think the people really appreciate it. I really do. Not so easy to do. Not so easy to do. I don’t think anybody else could have done it. Nobody else would have thought to do things like that, but nobody else would have done it.
We’re returning power to you the American people from Scranton to Easton. How’s Ernie doing? Good? Huh? How good is Ernie? Right? Right? Is he great? Ernie Holmes? He was heavyweight champ. Right? The champ.
Larry. Larry. Larry.
Larry. Larry. Sorry about that. I know another one named Ernie Holmes. Larry Holmes. Is he still in the area of-
[inaudible 00:56:24].
How good was Larry? Right? That was probably Muhammad Ali’s most dangerous fight. I’ve never seen anything like it. Mohammad would never go down, but Larry Holmes was a great champion and I know he loved Easton. He used to tell me that, “I want to invest my money in Easton.” I don’t know if that was a good thing or a bad thing. I hope he’s doing well, but he was one hell of a fighter.
From Scranton to Easton, to Allentown, we’re going to fight for every job, every family, every neighborhood, and every vote. Together we’ll unite citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed, as one people, one family, one glorious nation under God. That’s another word they don’t want you to say, God. You know that, right? Did you see they were doing something last night that was extremely basic, and always has had the word God in it, and they decided to take the word God out.
But this is where they’re coming from. They’re coming to get you. This is where they’re coming from. And me, we, we’re the wall between the American dream and total insanity, and the destruction of the greatest country in the history of the world. We’re all that stands. We’re all that stands, and a typical Republican probably wouldn’t get there but I think I’m very Republican in many ways, but your typical Republican would not be able to win.
Like your area. This has always been a Democrat area, and yet the votes for Trump here are through the roof. You know how successful we were four years ago. Incredible. It’s a great area. These are great people. They’re great, hardworking, incredible people, and we love them. With your drive and devotion we will win a historic victory on November 3rd, and we will make America greater than it’s ever been before. I just want to thank the people of Scranton, the lack of home, okay, the lack of home for Joe Biden.
Remember the next time. We’ve got to stop him from saying these things. But you look at … He’s going to make a speech tonight. It’s going to be very interesting to see how he does, and I hope he does well. I’ll be honest. I do. I hope he does well. I really hope he does well, but I also want him to tell the truth. He’s got to tell the truth about things, and he’s going to do a lot better if he does, but hopefully not well enough. Right now we are leading a war that’s incredible. But right now we’re leading in so many polls that they refuse to put out. We’re doing so good in this state, in North Carolina, in Florida, in Texas, in Ohio, in Michigan. You know how many car plants are being built or expanded in Michigan? We’re doing fantastically in Michigan. We’re doing great in New Hampshire.
These are real polls. These aren’t suppression polls. These aren’t polls where they do registered voters. Registered. No. You want to do voters that are going to vote. Registered voters. You want to do what’s called likely voters. Likely. In other words, people that are likely to vote. Not registered voters, many of whom have died, many of whom aren’t going to vote, and then you want to do an even count. You don’t want to do many more Democrats. They do a poll. Right? Many, many Democrats, few, few Republicans. Trump is down by six, and then you look and you say, “Well, if that poll is true, we’re up by 10.” So we’re going to see. You’re going to see. They did it last time. They had me losing every swing state. I think they had me losing like nine states that I won. But he’s going to lose. Right?
You were the first one that told me Lou. He’s going to lose seven swing states. He’s going to lose them all. He’s down by 14. Washington Post-ABC, they had me down one week before the election 12 to 14 points. The day of the election, because we complained that it was a fake poll, so they changed it the day of the election, and they had us just about even. Remember that whole big deal? We said, “You can’t say we’re down because that’s called suppression.” Then you say, “Hey, I love Trump, but I can’t vote for him because I don’t have the time because he’s not going to win.” But if you would have gone out and voted, we would have won. The problem was last time for them, 2016, everybody went out and voted. There was no suppression. There was incredible exhilaration except on the other side that they would not … You ever see those pictures of the craziness going on? But the polls were fake. Just like their stories are fake. Just like the news is fake.
The polls are even worse, and we’re now actually doing worse. One of the most accurate polls was Rasmussen, and Rasmussen came out today. Did you see it? 51 for Trump, 51. I think they were one of the three most accurate polls and the ones that are telling the truth. Sometimes, I mean they have a poll that came out recently that was very favorable, they refused to release it. They didn’t want the people to see it. What kind of stuff is this? That’s why you’re going to do a great job. Right? You’re going to make sure this stuff doesn’t happen, but we’re going to make sure too. So we’re going to win this, and I think we’re going to win it really big. When you see those people outside, and I mean you can take this crowd and multiply it times …
It looks like a hundred. Right? You can multiply it times a hundred, but when you see this crowd, and when you see the kind of enthusiasm, there’s nothing like it. We’re leading by the way, even they admit, we’re leading by enthusiasm by numbers like they’ve never seen before, record numbers. Meaning we have record enthusiasm, and he has a record lack of enthusiasm, and that is a big, big factor. So I just want to thank all of the people from this incredible place. I mean it’s just a great, a great, great place. I’ve been here for so long and so much, and I love it, and I love the people. We’re going to have the biggest victory. We’re going to have a victory that will equal or surpass what we did in 2016. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Oh, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And considering that we caught President Obama and sleepy Joe Biden, spying on our campaign, treason, will probably be entitled to another four more years after that. I wanted to thank you, and Art and Brandon, you’re incredible. I’ve known you now a long time. Right from the beginning, we had the chemistry, we had that good chemistry… Oh, sit down. It’s 122 degrees in this place. And we have our great Governor. Governor, can we make it a little bit, just a little. This is like a test. You think Joe Biden could do this? I don’t think so.
So I’m thrilled to be in Yuma, Arizona To proudly accept the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council, that’s a big deal. And they are great friends of mine. And we’re building the wall. Next week, we’ll be up to 300 miles of incredible wall. And our numbers are the best. We are very tough at the border. When people want to come in, for our farmers, et cetera, et cetera, we’re not going to hurt our farmers, but we’ve never had better numbers than we have right now. And that’s been helped because we’re at a little bit over 280 miles right now, we have never been helped like this. Wall, there are two things, in a thousand years you can come back, two things will never, with technology it’s obsolete before you even put it in the box, but two things never get old wheels and walls. Wheels and wall. If you come back in a thousand years, you’ll say, “Well, we still have wheels in walls.” And that’s the only thing you’ll recognize.
The National Border Patrol Council is the official union representing the incredible heroes of the United States Border Patrol. They’ve been my friends from the beginning. To every border agent, and I just met some unbelievable people backstage, these are great people, and every family member here today, you have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation. And I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. As you know, better than anyone, the survival of our nation is at stake in this election. And I will tell you, I never thought I’d say it because we had a great election. We had a great election a little while ago.
Four years ago, I never thought I’d say anything could compete with 2016. This election that we’re going into is the most important election in the history of our country, because we had crooked Hillary, but this is something, these people are sick. And we have to make sure that this radical left socialist and beyond, because this is beyond socialism, that it doesn’t happen, or we will indeed have Venezuela on steroids. So we can’t do it. Most important election, November 3rd, get out and vote. Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of America’s borders and boundaries. They want to take the wall down, they don’t want to have borders, they want to have sanctuary cities, lots of bad things they want. Following orders from his boss. I guess his new boss is Bernie Sanders. Can you believe that? Crazy Bernie.
Joe Biden has pledged to abolish immigration enforcement, suspend all removals, provide free government healthcare, and they want to give it to illegal aliens. You don’t get it. Restore, catching and release. Shield violent criminal aliens. This is what they want to do. And give every illegal alien on the planet earth a free ticket to invent an asylum claim, and gain automatic admission into our country. We will have people coming into our country that never even thought of it before. You get free education, you get free healthcare, why wouldn’t they come? Let’s go to America. The Biden plan would unleash a flood of illegal immigration like the world has never seen. It’s crazy. Biden’s plan is the most radical, extreme, reckless, dangerous, and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate. It must be defeated, and it will be defeated on November 3rd. It will be defeated.
At last night’s Democrat convention, which by the way, got very bad ratings, I have to tell you. Unity. They talk about unity. They want to bring unity. And then you listen to Michelle Obama’s speech, which was obsolete by the time it got there. She taped it. No, she taped the speech. It was obsolete. She must have taped it about three weeks before. I’m speaking next Thursday, maybe I’ll tape it. But I don’t think that goes. That’s so much nicer, to tape it, you do it, nice air conditioned room. And she not only taped it, but tell me when you hear a divisive speech… They talk about me as being a divider. I’m not a divider. I bring people together. We were bringing people together. We were bringing people together, like never before. Success was bringing everyone together, and then we got hit with the China virus, but we were bringing people together.
But one of the opening speakers last night said that America will go to hell if we don’t have open borders. Think of that. Go to hell. When a country doesn’t have borders, you don’t have a country. Today, a Democrat speaker at the convention said, “We’re talking about abolishing the police, we’re talking about abolishing ICE, we’re talking about abolishing prisons.” Biden’s campaign has turned into a cult for open border and others Zealots. By the way, they want to double and triple your taxes, they want to increase regulations, they want to spend very little money on our vets, after we took care of our vets better than anyone’s. 91% approval rate. And they want to spend much less on our military, we’ve totally rebuilt. Two and a half trillion dollars, we’ve totally rebuilt our military.
Bernie Sanders declared, in his speech, many of the ideas that just a few years ago were considered radical, are now mainstream. That’s Bernie Sanders. Because Joe, he doesn’t know where he is. But if he did, he’s been brought so far left that our country will not be the country that we know. It will have problems, it will go down. Your stocks will be gone, your 401ks will disappear. And right now, who has the 401k? And then the rest of you, many of you have stocks, and you do it a different way. That will go down 50, 60, 70%, 80%. And if you held on, like I said to do, we went down a little while we got hit with a virus. Now, NASDAQ just broke an all time record. SNP, just broke an all time record.
Socialism is the mainstream of the Biden campaign and it’s not the mainstream of America. Remember I said, we will never have a socialist country. On November 3rd. The people of Arizona, our great state, we love Arizona. I won it last time, by a lot. And I hear we’re going to win it by even more this time. Don’t forget, last time I talked, I said we’re going to give you a tax cuts, I gave you. I said, we’re going to give you a massive regulation cuts.
Give you your tax cuts, I gave them to you. I said we’re going to give you massive regulation cuts, we’re going to give you great everything. We even did Right to Try medicine. You know all about that. We did things that I didn’t even talk about it, we did. We did a thing called the Space Force. You never heard me talking about. I’m the only candidate that gave you more than I promised in the campaign. It’s true. I’m the only one ever, maybe ever. Or we’ll head to the polls and together we’ll stop the left and win four more years in the White House. We’re joined today by some incredible people, friends of mine, great, great people. And I want to congratulate your governor because we had a spike and he knocked that spike out so fast. I don’t know. Are you sure you even had a spike? Doug Ducey, a great governor, great man, and a somebody that won by about 16 or 17 points. That’s not so bad. And I think you’re more popular today. What a job you’ve done. Thank you very much, Doug.
A friend of mine and somebody who’s a great fighter pilot, and I had a lot of people tell me she could really wheel the Warthog, right? The Warthog. She said, “I love that plane,” but she was a great, great fighter pilot, one of the best they were telling me. This was a group and they knew a very well. A lot of friends you have. And specifically she said, “Could you extend that plane? That’s the best plane. It never breaks down. It just is a winner.” But Martha McSally is an extraordinary person, and she’s fighting for us, and she’s helping us, and we have to bring her into the center. Thank you, Martha.
And she’s running against a gentlemen who is, when you read what he’s done, when you read what he said about the second amendment and about all other things, you’re not going to want to vote for. You’re not going to want to have them play with your second amendment. I’ll tell you what. If I weren’t President, I don’t believe, Doug, you’d have a second amendment right now. I don’t think you’d have. The pressure that was put on to get rid of it, or to basically obliterate it, make it so it’s meaningless. You will always have the right to bear arms. You will always have that.
A few friends of mine who are warriors. Paul Gosar. Paul. Where’s Paul? Paul, stand up. Will you? Paul Gosar. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate. Great job you’re doing. These are warriors. They really are. When they went and they tried to make a play at your President, they had to get through the House. What were we? 197 and nothing. That’s never happened before. Everybody came together. The Republicans came. Other than Mitt Romney, one half a vote. One half a brain.
Another friend of mine and incredible fighter, and somebody that loves his state, and I’ll tell you, the Freedom Caucus, right? And we have a man named Andy Biggs here. He’s a fighter. He’s a fighter. And he loves our vets, and he loves our military, and you love our second amendment, right? And we’re not going to do anything with it. They will destroy that second amendment. Just remember I said it, but you’re not going to have to worry about it because it’s not going to happen.
A woman who really distinguished herself, she became a star. She became a star overnight. There was nobody tougher. There was nobody smarter. There was nobody better than Debbie Lesko. Great job, Debbie. Thank you. We want her on our side. Right fellas? We got to have her on our side. Also, thanks to Arizona Republican party chairman, I knew this was going to happen. I knew that she was going. She never stops. She never gives up. Kelly Ward. Kelly, thank you. Thank you, Kelly. Great job you’re doing. Are we winning?
We’re winning.
Okay, good. I think we are. That’s what they say. We better win. If we don’t win, this country is in big trouble. Big trouble. Also a great friend of all of ours, former State Treasurer of Arizona, Jeff DeWitt. Thank you Jeff. And a man who didn’t choke under pressure. I don’t even know if he’s here. I think he might be here. He never choked. He kicked for 11 years. You know what that is? You ever see a golfer. They miss a three footer. They miss a three footer. They can’t take it back. They choke, choke, choke. Well, kickers are the same. Right? NFL kickers. This guy lasted 11 years. He’s one of the best kickers ever. NFL kicker, Jay Feely. Where’s Jay? Where is Jay? He’s here someplace. Where is he? Jay? What happened? You couldn’t get a good seat, Jay. I remember the 61 yarder. That was a heartbreaker. Right? But the only thing is, I’ll bet you this man would stand, only stand, for our National Anthem. That’s one thing. That’s one thing I can tell you.
And if they don’t stand for our flag, if they don’t stand for our National Anthem, I turn off the game. Other than that, I’d like to watch, but I turn off the game. And by the way, I thought they learned that lesson a little while ago. I thought they learned that lesson two years ago, but maybe not, but they will. They’ll learn it again. This time it’ll go even faster.
For decades, Washington politicians like Biden allowed an endless supply of illegal foreign labor to decimate American jobs and wages. Also, the crime was incredible what happened. They allowed criminal gangs to menace, maim and terrorize innocent citizens. They came in. They would maim and terrorize, and we have done something with our border patrol. And by the way, ICE, ICE is great. ICE has taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13, and you don’t want the job. There’s some tough people here. None of you want the job. It’s a tough job, but they like it, and they’re great Patriots, and they’ve done a fantastic job. They ceded control of the border to the most dangerous and ruthless cartels on earth. This is what would happen. They have ceded. And what we’ve done, did you ever notice the caravans? What happened? Debbie, there are no more caravans. What happened? What happened to the caravans? They don’t come up anymore. The caravans don’t come up.
You know, we were paying hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, hundreds of millions. And I said, “Well, why are we doing that?” And they wouldn’t take. When we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring it back to one of those countries, they wouldn’t take him. And they wouldn’t take him under the Obama administration. So we got stuck with them because they’d fly in. They’d say, “Don’t land your plane.” And I said something very simple. I said, “That’s okay. We don’t have to do that. We’re not going to pay you anymore. We stopped payment.” We stopped payment. It’s amazing how that works, Doug. Right? We stopped payment and they called. They said, “We’d love to take them. We’d be honored to take them.” So we take them back by the thousands, by the thousands. They let lethal poisonous drugs pour freely into our schools and our communities, but no more. It’s not happening anymore. The cruel and heartless portrayal of the American people ended the day I took the oath of office, and now that we have more than half of the wall built, and do you notice they don’t talk about the wall anymore. They don’t talk. Why don’t you talk? I went, “Look at all those people back there.” That’s called fake news, fake news. Look at them. It’s the fake news.
They don’t talk about the wall anymore. See, we won. We got the wall. It’s going to be up to 300 next week and it’s going to be finished very soon. And as soon as we want, all of a sudden, they never talk about it. But you know where I talk about it? Numbers. The numbers are so good. The numbers are so low. We’ve never had numbers like this because that big portion of wall already built, you don’t get through it. You can’t get through it. You can climb Mount Everest, and you’re going to have an awful hard time getting over that sucker.
I stood up to the lobbyists. Everybody fought us, the Democrats, everyone. I fought the special interests. I kept every single promise that I made, and now I’m doing it with the drug companies. I just created Favorite Nation. So if a nation buys it for less and they buy it for a fraction of what we pay, the drug companies have to sell it to us for the same price. And they’re spending so much. They’re spending millions of dollars on advertising. Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, and they’re rich, the farmer, it’s called Big Farmer, the number one lobbyist. They spend millions and millions, hundreds of millions of dollars online. Anytime you see, anytime at all, you see an ad by Big Farmer against me, you know your drug prices are coming down. That’s what it is. They’re not happy.
And we’re giving the rebate that creates tremendous wealth for the middle man, the rebate. It’s going to the people now. We’re bringing the rebate and it’s going to the people. They are not happy. I have a lot of people in that industry do not like me too much. But you are going to get 50. You are going to get, and the Democrats would never do it, Biden would never do it because he doesn’t understand it, but they would never do it. They would in a million years, they wouldn’t do it. It took a lot of guts to do it. I had a lot of people, a lot of good politicians go, “Sir, I don’t think you should do it.” I wonder why you’re saying that, but we did it. We’re going to have drug prices reduced over a very short period of time, by not 2%, and last year they went down a little bit, first time in 51 years that drug prices went down but a little bit, we’re going to have prices dropping 50, 60, and even 70%. Drugs. About time.
And I’m proud to say that they’ve achieved the most secure border, our border patrol, in the history of the United States of America. We now have the most secure border we’ve ever had and it’s only going to get better. And we want people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people-
… people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people that are going to come in and are going to love for our country, not hate our country. Here in Yuma, Arizona, we’ve invested over $1.7 billion and poured 180,000 cubic yards, that’s a lot of concrete, to build 108 miles of powerful border wall. I know who’s going to vote for me. I don’t know though, I think I’m going to win Yuma. What do you think, Doug? I think, when I hear those numbers, when we hear those numbers, we’re winning. We’re going to win Yuma big. Now you see it and you see what’s going up and it’s an incredible structure, all capable, all wired up for cameras, for everything you can have. Technology is incredible.
In total, I’ve already completely planned for the final execution, we’re going to have, by the end of the year, everything that we said is going to be built. We may actually build some more in some soft areas that we’ve noticed over the last two years. So we actually may put up some additional, but we will have it completed, everything we said, by the end of the year and nobody thought that was possible.
And we’ve reduced illegal border crossings by 60% since this time last year. And if we keep going at the rate, it’ll be about 85% in about two months. So it’s a great honor. And you know what? Your community is much safer, you see the difference, it’s a much safer place to be. But more important than these numbers is the fact that we’ve ended catch and release. You know what catch and release is? These great men and women catch somebody, maybe a murderer, maybe a rapist, maybe a trafficker, they catch somebody, take his name, take his number and they release them into our country. And they say, “Come back in four years, you have a trial.” No more. We take them out. We bring them out. And nobody said that was possible because I couldn’t have gotten it through the Democrats because they don’t like that.
So we have people coming in to this country, some great people, some really bad people too. And I mean murders and I mean rapist, I mean really bad people and they don’t get in and they don’t get back. When we bring them back to their country, could be Mexico also, they don’t come back. Under the Obama Biden, I call it OBiden, Under the OBiden administration, our agents were ordered to ignore the law and release illegal aliens by the hundreds of thousands. And by the way, Mark Morgan, where’s the great Mark Morgan? He’s around here someplace. Mark Morgan has been so incredible, one of our executives, he said, “We never built the cages. Those cages were built in 2014 by Obama.” We never the cages, they were built by Obama and the fake news is constantly saying that I built cages for children. I didn’t build them. They were built in 2014.
There was a headline in Time magazine about the cage and somebody called in that built it. They said, “He didn’t build it, we built that for the Obama administration.” But they don’t stop, they keep calling it, they say I built the cages. You’ll hear it in one of the debates. They’ll say, “You built cages president.” I said, “No, I didn’t build cages. That was built by Obama.” Under the Trump administration, if you cross our border illegally, you are quickly apprehended and swiftly returned back home.
We are proudly defending the job safety and security of the American people, which is what I promised to do. Nobody told me it was going to be this hard. Nobody told me I was going to have the Democrats go totally crazy. This was like a life and death war. You know why they don’t talk about it anymore? Because they know it’s bad politics, because they know having a wall, they can’t win that one. So they just say, “Let’s forget it ever happened.’ Because we won and they say, “Let’s forget.” They don’t want to talk about it. That includes the millions of incredible Hispanic Americans who follow our laws, uplift our community and protect our nation, in uniform. Half of all border patrol agents are Hispanic Americans, I was just with them. And today I salute each and every one of those true American heroes and that’s what they are.
And nobody understands the border better than Hispanics. They know what’s good, what’s bad. They don’t want bad people coming into our country, taking their jobs, taking their homes, causing crime. Hispanic Americans are the people that are most in favor of what we’re doing on the border because they understand it. They understand it better than anybody. With the help of these patriots, we’ve stopped the rampant asylum fraud, shut down the human smugglers and we’re finding the drug dealers, traffickers, predators, and we’re throwing them to hell in jail or sending them back home.
MS-13, for the first time that you’ve ever seen this, MS-13 is totally on the run. Many of its leaders are right now behind bars and we’re deporting its members in record numbers we’ve never reported. I can’t believe how many there are. But if Biden wins, it will be a giant jail break for MS-13 and vicious criminal gangs. China wants him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. When we win, I’ll have a deal with the red within a month, watch, because they’re dying to make a deal. But that last hope that Biden will win, they will own our country, China, they will own our country. We made such a great deal. Last week they had the largest order of corn in the history of our country, the largest single order. Then they did it again. You know why they’re doing that? Because they know I’m angry, because they know I don’t care so much anymore. We made a great trade deal, but I don’t care.
But it shows you how smart they are, Doug. Another with normal brain power, they’d say, “Well, I’m not going to buy any more corn.” That’s good. And we’ll just decouple, thank you very much. But they go the opposite. They buy so much, good record numbers, soybeans record numbers. Last week, biggest ever, 42% of our farmers crop is now China, over the last little while. You know why? Because they don’t want bad things to happen, that’s why. So they’re very smart. When I have every farmer in the country calling and saying, “Please don’t do anything.” They’re very, very smart, but we can never forget what China did to this country and did to the world.
The historic achievements that I’ve discussed today are only a slim fraction of the extraordinary accomplishment that we’ve all done together in the last four years. Here’s just a short list of our landmarks. Really they are landmarks, true landmarks. We instituted a national security travel ban on the world’s most dangerous regions, including jihadist regions, keeping terrorists and extremists out of our country. Everyone said, “Oh, that’s so bad.” Remember when they said, “Oh, that’s so bad.” I don’t think it’s so bad at all. We won the travel ban. The fake news said we didn’t because we lost in the lower court, we lost in the second court and we won in the Supreme court. So they said we lost. Can you believe it?
They said we lost Debbie, because we lost the first two, but we won in the Supreme court, so they said, “They lost.” I guess, technically they’re right, we lost when it didn’t matter. But we have it. We have a great travel ban now for countries that are not countries where we want the people coming in. Over the last three years, ICE officers have made over 380,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records, including those charged or convicted of over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex crimes and 5, 800 murders. Over the last three years, border patrol and ICE have seized over two million pounds of fentanyl, heroin, meth, and other deadly narcotics. And you see it all the time.
We stripped federal grant funding from deadly sanctuary cities. They want to have a sanctuary city, not going to be like the old days. We canceled the lawless policies of the previous administration and empowered border agents and ICE officers to do their jobs and proudly enforce the laws of the United States of America. We removed 20,000 gang members, including 4,500, MS-13. That’s pretty good. Who would ever think there’s that many? I entered into three landmark agreements with Honduras and El Salvador and Guatemala to end the abuse of the asylum system. We cut down that payment that I was talking about substantially and they’re still very happy and they are working with us very well and that includes Mexico.
Right now, Mexico has 27,000 of their soldiers on our Southern border, helping us to guard our Southern border. And we’re giving you the tools to do the job that you signed up for. That’s what we’ve done. I entered into a historic partnership with Mexico, known as the migrant protection protocols, to safely return asylum seekers to Mexico, while awaiting hearings in the United States. You know about that. We had to have them in the United States and we captured them, we had to keep him here. I said, “No, no, we don’t want them here. We want them outside.” We got sued all over the place that we won. So now they don’t come into the United States, they can wait outside. For the first time ever, the United States is now exercising our full legal authority to expedited removal. We don’t have to go through years and years of litigation. You need Perry Mason to try and win. We ended the Obama Biden policy of giving work permits to newly arriving, illegal aliens. Think of that one. We established the national vetting center, the most advanced visa screening system, anywhere in the world. We know so much about the people coming in. We know the good and we know the bad. We’ve suspended refugee.
… Good and we know the bad. We’ve suspended refugee resettlements from the world’s most dangerous regions, because nothing is more important than keeping America safe. To me, that’s number one. We’ve made historic progress to crack down on visa overstays. You know all about that. They overstay for years. They say, “Maybe a night, maybe two nights.” Well, five years later, you catch them. No, we ended it. We issued strict sanctions on countries that failed to take back their own criminals. We have many countries beyond the four that I mentioned, the three plus one, many countries. They all take them back now. Before, they weren’t taking them back at all. The last administration simply released these criminals. We’re making sure they go home and we’re making sure they stay home. We don’t want them.
We issued regulations to stop the horrible practice of birth tourism. You know what that is, right? Anchor babies, you know that, right? Anchor babies. Have a baby in our country and you stay for the rest of your life. Congratulations. You’re a citizen for 90 years. Then you bring in your family. You bring in your family, right? No. No good. I implemented a historic public charge regulation to finally and fully enforce the federal requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient, they cannot accept welfare for at least five years.
To protect our country and our agents during the pandemic, my administration took immediate action to ensure the safe and rapid return of all illegal aliens. We brought them back. We have very few in our country now. We brought them back, can you believe it? To protect US workers, I suspended the entry of low wage workers that threatened all of your jobs, American jobs, and we’re finalizing the new H-1B regulations to permanently end the displacement of US workers.
In January after the China virus, after the outbreak, after the outbreak, the China virus outbreak, it came from Wuhan, right? I swiftly implemented a travel ban on China and I was criticized. Biden, opposed the ban. He said, “I oppose the ban.” He had no idea what the hell he was doing. Why do you oppose it, Joe? I don’t know. They told me to say that. If we had listened to Sleepy Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands of additional American lives would have been lost. We did a good thing. That was in January, I imposed it, very early.
A month later, Pelosi and all these people said, “Oh no, let people come in. We can’t.” We imposed it because China was heavily infected. Then I imposed it in Europe also, heavily infected with Italy and France and Spain. Compare our achievements with the insane and lethal policies that Biden and Bernie Sanders want. The entire Biden… Harris. How about her? Is she a great one? Is she? By the way, you talk about guns. She wants no 2nd Amendment. She wants to raise your taxes to a level you’ll be paying your government back for a long time. She is not the right pick, but she was my number one draft pick. They asked me that.
Why do you think? I said, “I’m very happy.” They thought I was happy. They thought I was happy for him. No, I was happy for me. The Biden-Harris plan is a step by step recipe for abolishing America’s borders. In the Biden, Bernie manifesto, Joe Biden, promises to restore and expand catch and release across the entire US border. You believe that? We just got rid of it. Free all illegal aliens from federal detention and close detention facilities, this would make removing illegal aliens totally impossible, and you would have murderers, killers, rapists in your midst. I don’t think so.
Immediately suspend all removals, triggering a tidal wave of, really a flood, if you think, a flood all across our border. End prosecution of illegal border crosses ensuring that illegal aliens will repeatedly reenter the country over and over again and terminate all protections we have enacted against asylum fraud. They want to do things that nobody thought was even possible to contemplate.
Now, this is all simple and I really respect because so far I’ve only seen about four or five people go down. Because it is hot in here. But I will tell you this… It’s 120. You know what I said before? Think of yourself at a great spa, great sauna, where it’s 120 degrees and we have to pay a lot of money to be there. You have to pay a lot of money. Getting off the border, getting off illegal protection, all of that, we are going to lower your taxes further. We gave you the biggest tax decrease in the history of… The biggest tax decrease in the history of our country. We decreased your taxes more than anybody has ever done and we’re doing more because that’s going to spell growth and that’s what happened.
Companies are moving in like nobody has seen before. So we’re doing that. Massive additional regulation cuts. We’ve cut regulations more than any president in the history of our country, whether it’s four years, eight years, or in one case, more. I told you already, our military is the best it’s ever been. It’s got $2.5 trillion worth of new, beautiful jets and equipment and rockets and everything. Hopefully, we never have to use it. Our nuclear arsenal, and hopefully, hopefully we never have to even look at it, our nuclear arsenal is at a level that it’s never ever been before, and we have to have it there, but we never want to use it.
So we have done things not only on the border, the border is one element, and to me it’s very important. Something that they always say about a president, the most important thing a president can do is the appointment of federal judges and supreme court justices. So by the end of our, of not my, our first term, we will have appointed 300 federal judges and appeals court judges, and two supreme court justices.
When it comes to 2nd Amendment, when it comes to life, when it comes to a lot of things that you people live for, if you don’t have the supreme court and if you don’t have the courts in your side, you can forget it. The next president, I think, will pick two, three, or even four justices of the supreme court. They can be on the court for 40 to 50 years. You pick them young. They could be on there for 40 to 50 years. This is going to be the most consequential presidency. This is going to be the most important, and I never thought I’d say it because of what happened four years ago, this is going to be the most important election of your life. So I just want to…
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you.
Four more years. Four more years.
I just want to say stay healthy, stay sharp, be careful. Be very careful. Go out and work like hell. We need every single vote that we can get because it’s probably going to be close. I always assume it’s going to be close. They have these suppression, the fakers back there, they have the suppression polls where they interview many more Democrats than they do Republicans. Doug and I were talking about it and they take out registered voters. It’s not registered. They say, “Most likely to vote voters.” That’s what, most likely registered, they’re dead, they’re old, they’re not going to go, they’re not going to do anything. Be careful with your ballots, but get out there.
November 3rd is the biggest date, one of the biggest dates in your life, in many cases, frankly, it’s the most important date of your life. One other thing we’ve done lot. We’ve gotten rid of a lot of nonsense from Obama, like the Paris Accord that costs us tens of billions of dollars and gave us nothing. We’ve gotten rid of so many different things that you have no idea, but you know what? If we don’t win, they can put it back, and with the things that we did put in, which are many, many, many things, many things, our military, our vets, everything, with all of the things that we put in, it’s like a tree, it takes a little while to grab on. You transplant it. It’s got to grab on.
If we have four more years, there’s nothing that they can do. Our country is sailing. our country is sailing. So Yuma, thank you very much. Arizona, thank you very much. Thank you for all your support. We love you. We will never ever let you down. We will never let you down. Governor, thank you. Martha, go out and win. Go out and win. Vote McSally. Thank you everybody.
Hello.
Nice to see you.
Good morning, Mr. President. Good to see you.
Hello. Good morning.
Good morning.
This is a very distinguished group. Fantastic. Thank you.
[inaudible 00:00:16].
Congratulations to everybody. It’ll even be bigger than you think. We’re going to do something which I think you’ll be very happy with, which nobody knows. Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much for being with us. This is a big day in many ways. Many, many ways. The First Lady and I are delighted to welcome the members of Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commission to the White House to celebrate the 100th anniversary of women securing the right to vote. That’s something. I want to thank the commission members who have worked tirelessly for three years to tell the very powerful story of America’s suffrage on America’s suffrage movement. I’d like to introduce the women that have done such an incredible job for a long period of time. Jovita Carranza, SBA administrator. Jovita?
Right behind you.
Hello, Jovita.
Hello, sir.
She’s the biggest banker in the world right now. Even though it says small business, it’s a big business, right? Kay Coles James, president of The Heritage Foundation.
Over here, Mr. President.
Great job. Thank you very much. Anna Laymon, executive director of Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commission.
That’s me.
Thank you very much. Good, great job. Oh, you’re going to be so happy in a little while because we’re giving you a very special treat that you don’t know about. Even you don’t know about it. You know everything, you people. Cleta Mitchell, attorney, former member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. A great attorney, I might add.
Yes.
Beyond an attorney, a great attorney. Okay. I know that for a fact.
Thank you.
Thank you, Cleta, very much. Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List. You are going to be so happy-
I can’t wait.
… in about seven minutes. You won’t even believe it. Karen Hill, CEO of the Harriet Tubman National Historic Park.
Over here.
Congratulations. Great job you do. Penny Nance, president of the Concerned Women of America.
Behind you.
Behind you.
Mr. President.
Hi. How are you? Thank you. Heather Higgins, president of Independent Women’s Voice.
Thank you, sir.
Hi, Heather. Thank you. Congratulations. Debra Steidel Wall, deputy archivist of the United States. That sounds like a very big job. That’s a lot of archives, isn’t it?
It is.
How many buildings does that take up, right? Great. Great job. I hear you do a great job. Thank you very much. Colleen Shogan, deputy director, national and international outreach for the Library of Congress. Fantastic.
Thank you.
That’s another big one, right?
Yes.
That’s great. Congratulations. That’s beautiful. Susan Combs, assistant secretary of policy, management and budget at the Department of the Interior. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you all very much.
Today I’m honored to sign a proclamation celebrating August 18th, 2020 as the 100th anniversary of the 19th amendment. In the summer of 1848, Elizabeth Cady Stanton stood before the first ever women’s rights convention in Seneca Falls, New York, and declared that women should enjoy this fundamental civil right. What a job she did. Seven decades later, the suffrage movement succeeded. On this day in 1920, the United States ratified the 19th amendment. It was a monumental victory for equality, for justice, and a monumental victory for America. Today, a record-breaking 131 women are serving in Congress, nearly 70 million women vote in elections, 56% of our nation’s college students are women, more than 11 million women own successful businesses. In other words, women dominate the United States. I think we can say that very strongly.
Before the China virus set in and struck our nation, women had gained 4.3 million jobs, a record, the women’s unemployment rate had plummeted to the lowest level in more than 65 years, and last year, over 70% of the new jobs went to women. And I will say, we’re coming back very strongly and we’re going to see those numbers again very soon. But the numbers that we have for unemployment and employment, frankly, we had 160 million people working. We’ve never even been close to that, and by next year we’ll be even higher than that number. Tremendous things are happening.
As we fight to deliver a better future for all women and for all Americans, we remember the wonderful victory one century ago. While I am president, America will always honor its heroes and we will always celebrate the patriots who secured women’s right to vote. So this is an incredible document that I’m signing, and I wanted to just add something because this was brought up a week ago and I was so surprised that it was never done before, because later today I will be signing a full and complete pardon for Susan B. Anthony. She was never pardoned.
That’s true.
Did you know that? She was never pardoned.
She wasn’t pardoned.
What took so long? And you know that she got a pardon for a lot of other women and she didn’t put her name on the list, so she was never pardoned.
For voting.
For voting. That’s right.
She was guilty.
That’s right. She was guilty for voting. And we are going to be signing a full and complete pardon.
That’s fabulous.
And I think that’s really fantastic. She deserves it. So thank you all very much. And let us sign, and we’ll do the other signing later on. It’s being prepared right now, and I look forward to doing it. Thank you very much. Please.
[inaudible 00:06:59]. I always like to make it look nice. Okay?
That’s good. Thank you.
[inaudible 00:07:22]. So let’s take these and hand those out, honey. For you.
I can get it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much, sir.
This is much better than signing one letter, is it not?
Thank you.
Yeah.
Do you ever see what those signatures look like?
It’s terrible.
They’re not good. They’re not good. So thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Who would like to have the privilege of delivering this? Who would like to have this?
Give it to our chair.
I’m the chair.
I think so. Congratulations. Really fantastic job. Let’s get a picture. Right over here. Come on. Okay.
Can you see?
That’s a great picture. 100 years.
Yes.
Would anybody like to ask any questions of the commission? They’ve done a fantastic job. If you have any questions, please, this is your shot. This is your time.
I have a question. Mr. President, you spoke about a suburban housewife and what you described as her support for you. I’m wondering if you can tell me what you think what is a suburban housewife and does the suburban housewife support the president?
Well, I’m Penny Nance. I run Concerned Women for America in my day job. And we actually are doing She Prays, She Votes events in 10 States, doing virtual events for women being held in women-owned businesses, like clothing stores, manufacturing plants, any number. Susan B. Anthony was pro-life and so are we. Women are concerned about their schools reopening. They’re concerned about their businesses. And what better man to restart the economy than the one who did it the first time?
Thank you. We did do it once and we’re doing it again, and the number looks beyond a V. It looks like a super V based on the kind of numbers coming out. They were saying that’s not possible and now they’re saying it’s a super V, and that’s what we’re having. Any other questions, please, for the commission?
Mr. President, can I ask about Saturday, the House vote on the Postal Service bill? Is that something that you will be-
We’ll talk about that later. We will talk about that the Democrats want to make it a political issue. It’s not a political issue. It’s really about a correct vote. You have to get voting right. You can’t have millions and millions of ballots sent all over the place, sent to people that are dead, sent to dogs, cats, sent everywhere. This is a serious situation. This isn’t games, and you have to get it right. I just want to get it right. Win, lose, or draw. I think we’re going to win. Win, lose, or draw, we have to get it right.
So are they getting it right with their bill?
Well, they’re going to do something in Congress, but everything they do is political. As an example, why don’t they do it now instead of on Monday? They picked a day. Actually, they picked another day on Monday, as you know. Well, that’s when the Republican Convention starts. Why don’t they do it during the Democrat Convention? Because everything they do, Nancy and Chuck, they play games. How’s it working out? I think this is the White House, isn’t it? How’s it working out for them? Not so good.
So I will tell you, it’s disgraceful. It’s disgraceful. We have to have honest voting. That’s what this is all about here. It’s honest voting. You can’t take millions of ballots, send them haphazardly all over the country or all over a state, and expect to come out properly. And if you look at the last 10 elections where they did this universal … And by the way, absentee is great. It’s been working for a long time, like in Florida. Absentee, you request and it comes in, and then you send it back. Absentee is great, but universal is going to be a disaster the likes of which our country has never seen. It’ll end up being a rigged election or they will never come out with an outcome. They’ll have to do it again and nobody wants that. And I don’t want that. Go ahead, please. Let’s talk about this subject, however. Although, indirectly, we’re probably talking about the same subject. Wouldn’t you say, Cleta?
Yes.
Cleta’s an expert on this. I’ve never even asked. She’s one of the great attorneys in Washington. Do you have an opinion on it? And if it’s not my opinion, please don’t say it.
I do. No, I do have an opinion.
Come on up here. And I must say, it’s very interesting.
Well, I do have an opinion. The president is right. One of the things that the Democrats and their allies in the media and the left have been trying to do for a long time is to have universal mail voting where election officials send ballots to everybody on the registration list. But we all know there have been multiple studies, the Pew study, millions of people are on the rolls who are no longer living there, they’re dead, they’re non-citizens. Don’t forget, when you go to the DMV or social services, they ask you … They’re supposed to. By law, they have to ask you to register to vote, whether you’re eligible or not. All of those registrations are dumped into the system, and so there are duplicates. I am chairman of a public interest legal foundation. We’re devoted to election integrity and we just did a study of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. We found one man with seven active registrations. If you send him seven ballots, there’s the potential to vote seven times.
He will.
So the issue is … I actually have a memo I’m working on to give to the president about what the post office should be doing. They should be working with local election officials. They should be making sure that the ballots are designed in a way that processes properly through the voting equipment, through the post office equipment. Everybody is focused on this situation with somehow the Postal Service, that the president is somehow trying to do something to the Postal Service. I defy anyone in this room to be able to name a single … All of us can name multiple times when we’ve sent a letter across town and it either didn’t get there or came back three months later undeliverable to a correct address.
So we know the president is not responsible for the problems at the post office, but there are things the Postal Service should do in conjunction with election officials, and they should do those now and make sure that the systems are in place to properly process the ballots that are sent by mail. But the problem is that we are facing hundreds of lawsuits that have been filed by the Democrats and leftist organizations to force states to not have polling places. I personally believe that we should have Election Day, we shouldn’t have election three months, and for sure, we ought to be able to know by election night who won. So Mr. President, you’re 100% right, and there are a lot of us who are standing behind you and want to help.
Thank you. And give me that letter, if you could.
Not yet.
No, if you have it. From you, I’ll take it. She’s really one of the great lawyers. Thank you very much. I’ll wait for it.
Can I add to the question before about women?
Yes, please.
There are a lot of issues where what the president is doing, talking about public safety, which is increasingly a concern for women as they see what is going on, but also policies that he’s taken. So the president has done extraordinary things on healthcare. His executive order requiring price transparency, that is an issue that is 88% popular across the country, across party affiliations, across ideologies, across demographics. Among women who are 40 and under, it’s a 98% approval issue. Without this president being reelected, that executive order goes away because Congress hasn’t yet made it into a law, because it goes into effect in January of 2021.
So this has historically been the number one, if not top three issues in the country, and this is the only person who’s going to bring price transparency, which can bring down healthcare costs by 40%, revealing what the true prices are of your hospital or your insurance before you have to pay for it, so you can shop or other people will shop, and that will drive down prices. Enormous issue for this cohort. So women care about a lot of things.
It’s so nice that you say that because they don’t speak about it, but transparency is a very controversial issue because doctors don’t like it, and frankly, hospitals don’t. The good doctors love it and the good hospitals love it.
Doctors and patients love it. Hospitals, insurers, PBMs, which are the wholesalers that control the pharmacies, and pharma, they all have lobbyists all over Washington trying to stop what the president is doing.
I’ve had many people that are really expert at it. They say it’s a bigger issue than healthcare itself. It’ll save so much money and it’s the full deal. I signed it. It’s done. It goes into effect on January 1st. And you’re right. If the Democrats get in, they’ll probably try and end it, and what a shame that would be because it was so hard to get it done and it will save people massive amounts of money. I’m not talking about 1% or 2%.
The other thing we just did, you probably heard, is I signed a favored nations clause on drugs because we have countries in the world, Germany and others, but we have many countries in the world that pay a tiny fraction. I don’t mean like 2%, less. 10% versus what we pay. You have a pill that will sell for 25 cents in a certain country in Europe that will sell for two and a half dollars in this country, and it’s so unfair to our people. And I signed a favored nations clause and the drug companies are spending millions and millions of dollars trying to get me not elected. And all it means when you see ads from drug companies, all it means is one thing. The drug prices are going to be coming down 50, 60, 70%, and they never thought anybody would do that.
I also signed a rebate clause. So the rebate money, instead of going to the middlemen, who are among the richest men of this country, and men and women, I guess, in this country by far. The middleman makes more money than the people that produce. At least the drug companies produce something. But I signed where the rebate goes to the people. There’s never been anything like this. And as a non-politician, I could do it. And I will tell you, I was called by a lot of politicians, that I was surprised at, literally begging me not to do it. “Please don’t do it. Please don’t do it.” And because the big pharma is by far the number one lobbyist paying group in the country, and people are loyal to big pharma and I’m all for big pharma, but this will be a tremendous drop.
So between transparency and what I just did with respect to favored nations, that means if Germany pays 25 cents and we’re paying $2.50, we go down to 25 cents. That’s a number that nobody’s even thought of. And what will happen is they’ll have to pay more and we’re going to have to pay much, much less. And it could be 70, 80%, so we’re not talking about games. And nobody had the courage to sign it. A lot of people didn’t even know about it. A lot of people. So I appreciate very much. And it may be that transparency is even more important than that.
I think it is, because transparency is the basis for markets and that’s the basis also for trust. Right now, you don’t have the right to know what something costs before you buy it. If airlines followed the same model as hospitals and insurers do, you wouldn’t know the price of your airline ticket until after you landed because they don’t know how full the flight is going to be. They don’t know how much fuel they’re going to have to spend. But every other business manages to do their average pricing. Hospitals know their average prices. That’s how they sell so quickly when somebody’s buying a hospital. They’re just not sharing it after the fact.
It’s so great. And let’s see voters go, “Well, that’s interesting.”
This is the [inaudible 00:19:37]. Jimmy Kimmel wants to make fun of this again.
No, but did I tell you? No, I think it’s great that we’re talking about something that you know a lot about and it does really pretend to exactly what you’re doing. I think it’s true. We did one other thing that is so important. Pharmacies, they didn’t have to give any information. You go in for a pill and the pharmacy gives you this crazy price, and you can’t price it, you can’t go around, you can’t do anything. I ended that practice. I said, “What do you mean? You can’t negotiate?” You didn’t even have the right to negotiate. I ended that and was met with a hailstorm. Everything I do, I get met with a hailstorm.
But you know what? I do the right thing. I do the right thing for the people. I don’t need big pharma. They don’t help me. They help a lot of other people, but they don’t help me. I’m doing the right thing for the country. And let’s see whether or not people realize that they’re spending millions and millions of dollars on negative ads on me, and you see it’s big pharma. Unlimited money. They have so much money. They have unlimited money. And let’s see. But I think when people see big pharma taking ads on me that I’m such a bad person, what it means, and I hope they understand that it means drug prices are going down. Katelyn, go ahead.
Do you want to respond to Michelle Obama’s speech last night where she said that you’re in over your head and the wrong president?
No, she was over her head. And frankly, she should have made the speech live, which she didn’t do. She taped it. And it was not only taped, it was taped a long time ago because she had the wrong deaths. She didn’t even mention the vice presidential candidate in the speech. And she gets these fawning reviews. If you gave a real review, it wouldn’t be so fawning. I thought it was a very divisive speech, extremely divisive. We have a tremendous amount of enthusiasm for my campaign because of things like we’re talking about now, drug prices and drug cuts and a transparency with hospitals and doctors that are going to lower bills by 50%, 70%. You’re talking about numbers that are incredible.
There’s a procedure, I won’t mention what it is, but there’s a procedure where one hospital was charging $2,500. Another hospital was charging $32 for the exact same procedure, using the exact same kit, and the people weren’t able to go around and even have that option. And it was the exact same. In fact, we did a study and the one for $32 actually did a better job. Okay. How about that? $2,532, and the cheap one did a better job using the exact same stuff. So that’s what we’re talking about. We’re talking about numbers that are incredible.
No, I thought her speech was very divisive. And frankly, I wouldn’t even be here if it weren’t for Barack Obama. See, we’re standing in the White House. I wouldn’t be in the White House except for Barack Obama because they did a bad job, Biden and Obama. And if they did a good job, I wouldn’t be here. I’d be building buildings someplace and having a good time.
You compared your response to coronavirus to their response to the H1N1, but-
Well, they got very bad reviews. If you look at the Gallup poll, Gallup Poll did a review of them. Now you have to understand, that was a far lesser vicious disease. It was not in the same ballpark.
Yeah, only 13,000 people died.
Yeah, yeah. I know. It’s also a much lesser disease, but they got very bad reviews. Gallup gave very bad reviews. And by the way, Gallup at that same time gave us very, very good reviews for the job we’ve done. So if you take a look at the Gallup poll from a couple of months ago, we got very good reviews and they got very bad reviews. The reviews they got for the handling of swine flu or H1N1, which Biden calls N1H1, and I don’t even correct him on that. I don’t even correct him. I said, “That’s a mistake you can make.” But that’s what he calls it. He’s got it a little mixed up, but that’s all right. Take a look at the Gallup poll, and there are others too. They got horrible marks and that disease is a much lesser problem. Okay.
Mr. President, do you support protestors in Belarus and do you have a message-
Do I support protestors and terrorists?
In Belarus.
In Belarus.
Oh, I thought he said protestors and terrorists.
And do you have a message for Moscow regarding potential military invasion in Belarus?
Yeah. You have to understand me, I like seeing democracy. Democracy is a very important word. It doesn’t seem like it’s too much democracy there in Belarus, but we are speaking to lots of people, and we’ll be speaking at the appropriate time to Russia, and we’ll be speaking to other people that are involved. But it’s certainly a very big march and it seems to be a very peaceful march, unlike some of the so-called peaceful protests that we have where they burned down stores. Okay? Peaceful protest. Those are not peaceful. Those are anarchists going over to Portland and other places. These are anarchists, agitators. These are very bad people. But it seems to be very peaceful and it’s a peaceful protest. And I do, I support democracy. Okay, any other questions?
Mr. President, we’re here with female supporters. When you speak-
Not supporters. These are just people that are outstanding people. Some support me.
This is a bipartisan commission.
That’s right. This is very bipartisan. Some were appointed by people that I don’t get along with so well. Okay? I won’t say who because I happen to like you all.
That’s me.
I happen to like you all. So what can I do?
The question is, when you speak to the suburban housewives of America, what do you view as the suburban woman voter? Is the suburban woman voter a suburban housewife or is there more in your assessment?
That’s a very fair question. A great question, actually. Look, I view it very strongly that the suburban voter, the suburban housewife, women and men living in the suburbs, they want security and they want safety. They don’t want to have a lifetime of working hard and buying a house. And by the way, 30% of the people living in suburbia are minority groups. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, they’re minority groups. They don’t want to have their American dream fulfilled and then have a low income housing project built right next to their house or in the neighborhood. They don’t want it. That’s not part of the deal. And I terminated that.
And I think that the suburban housewife, as you say, and I think that women and men living in the suburbs who fulfilled their American dream, or at least got a big part of it, they now live in a safe, beautiful area. They don’t want to have people coming in and forcing low income housing down their throats. And you know what? People can say I’m a bad person for doing that or they can say I’m a good person, but I think that suburban women very much appreciate what I did. I terminated it. This has been a hot issue for before President Obama, but he took it to a new level, and Biden is going to take it to yet another level.
In fact, they say that Cory Booker, there’s another beauty, that Cory Booker is involved, and if Cory Booker’s involved, nothing good is going to happen. It’s very unfair to suburbia. Men, women, husbands, housewives, whatever you want to say, it’s very unfair. And I think it’s a very important issue and I think they respect very much what I did and nobody else would have had the guts to do it. Thank you all very much. We’ll be signing for Susan B, Anthony the full pardon very, very soon. Thank you very much.
Mr. President, should Lukashenko step down?
Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. [inaudible 00:27:26].
Could you sign this real quick?
You know what, come on in here with her. Okay? Thank you very much everybody. See you in a little while.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Well hello Oshkosh. Wow! I don’t know what happened. Something happened. This was supposed to be just a quick little small gathering. This is what’s happening and we call it a peaceful protest. We’re supposed to have 50 people, right? So we have a little more and they turned away a lot of people outside. So we’ll call it a peaceful protest. That way we could do whatever we want.
You know that’s what they call it in New York and these different places Portland, when they’re rioting all over the streets they say it was a peaceful protest. So you can have thousands of people doing it we’ll do the same thing. I’m truly thrilled to be here with you. The hardworking patriots of Wisconsin. Thank you. Thank you. It’s a big group of people. This is like a rally I said it’s not supposed to be a rally. We’re not supposed to have a rally. I hereby grant to you a pardon. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Well, I want to thank you. Thank you. In the months ahead we will need every ounce of your strength and drive and patriotism. We’re in a fight for the survival of our nation and civilization itself. We are really in a fight. This is the most important election we’ve ever had in my opinion. And I used to say it and I’d say it with great conviction, 2016 but you know what? That wasn’t crazy people we were dealing. They were on the edge, crooked Hillary was on the edge. She was on the verge. She became crazy later on when she lost. That’s what she became. But these are people that are seriously radical left. Joe Biden is nothing but their puppet. He has no clue what’s happening.
And then baking speeches that are taped, who wants to listen to Michelle Obama do a tape speech? No, you got to have her get up there. But we’re doing a real speech on Thursday next Thursday, she’ll be listening. Doing it live from the white house, live from the white house. So we have plenty to say. So Joe Biden and the Democrats have pledged to oppose $4 trillion of new taxes. So this is a group of people that think it’s good to raise everybody’s taxes. In the old days a politician would lower taxes, right? The great Scott Walker is here, your governor. Scott would lower taxes, but now the whole thing I guess it’s changed. It’s gotten inside out. Now everybody says we’re going to raise your taxes, but Republicans are lowering your taxes. We gave you the biggest tax decrease of the history of our country and we’re going lower.
But they’re going to massively increase your regulations. In addition to your taxes, they’re going to confiscate the guns of law abiding Americans. They’re going to take away your second amendment. They’re going to make America a sanctuary for criminal aliens. They’re going to keep those sanctuary cities. They love sanctuary cities. They’re going to protect the criminals, abolish American energy and make us reliant on foreign nations and force taxpayers to fund extreme late term abortion. That’s what they’re doing. They also want to abolish the suburbs by allowing far left Washington bureaucrats to force the construction of low income housing projects in every neighborhood in America. That’s what they want to do, that’s their goal. And we’re going to let you preserve your American dream in the suburbs. Okay? We ended the program. We ended the program. The voters of Wisconsin are very, very spectacular people. We are going to take care of you at every level. We are going to fight for you. We are going to fight for every single aspect that you have going. We are never going to forget you. You didn’t forget me in the last election so I want to thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. I want to thank you very much. It’s great. So we issued a regulation and we ended that regulation because when we talk about suburbs and we talk about other things we have taken care of about 84% of Obama regulations, executive orders. It’s amazing. We knocked out a big portion of what he did, including the wonderful mandate, right? The individual mandated Obamacare, which totally by the way, by far the worst of all of Obamacare. We took it out, essentially that ended Obamacare. And then you say so we knocked out 84% of what he did and then they say he was a wonderful president. Why was he a wonderful president if we knocked out in a very popular way knocked out 84%? The voters of Wisconsin face a simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the radical left mob or do you want to stand tall as free men and women in the greatest country on earth and keep it that way?
Do you want to crush our economy under the crazy socialist policies of sleepy Joe Biden and his boss Kamala Harris? And his other boss Nancy Pelosi, she’s a beauty. And his ruler Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie. Or do you want to quickly rebuild the strongest economy in the history of the world? Which we did. We’re going to have to do it again. We’re going to have to do it again and we’re in the process of doing it.
We’ve built the greatest economy on earth and now we’re doing it again. You look at all the numbers, we’re going to go over them. Do you want to fund and defame and dismantle the police? I don’t think so. Do you want to support the incredible heroes of law enforcement? Yes, right? Do you want your friends and family to be persecuted by the far left wing? It’s called cancel culture, right? Cancel culture. Or do you want to defend our history, our heroes, our faith, our values and our treasured American way of life, which is what we have?
Now don’t believe the lies you’re going to hear on tape. Most of it is going to be tape. I wonder is Joe Biden taping his speech too because if he is, I think I’ll tape mine. How do you watch a tape? They talk about a convention. How do you watch a tape speech? I would imagine Joe is going to do everything he can to tape it. I saw them asking him questions today. It was a news conference and he read them off a teleprompter. I don’t get it. I don’t get it. Something going on up there. We can’t afford it. I can tell you this look, from doing this now we’ve built the greatest economy in the world, we rebuilt our military, we gave you the greatest tax cuts in history, we gave you the greatest regulation cuts. We became energy independent. We’ve done things that nobody thought possible, right? Nobody thought possible. We’ve done things that nobody ever thought you had the greatest year in the history of your state last year, greatest year. And when you look at the numbers, you’re going to have an even greater year next year, unless somebody comes in and quadruples your taxes. In which case it’s called the depression folks. It’s called it depression. It’s not going to happen because we’re going to win. Biden is just a Trojan horse for socialism. He’s a Trojan horse. He has no clue, but the people around him are tough and they’re smart. But we disagree with them very, very strongly. They’re mean and they’re angry like her. By the way, nobody treated Joe Biden worse than Kamala, right? She was worse than Pocahontas, She was worse than anybody on stage. Nobody treated him worse or with less respect. She had no respect. All of a sudden she’s now saying he’s the wonderful. She didn’t feel that way a little while ago. Let’s talk about her for a second. She left in shame. She started at 14 she left at two. She went in the wrong direction. So if a poll is any indication, that’s what we want, speak in the polls. Fake news, CNN. They probably have their cameras going thank you very much.
No, no, no. Frankly, their pollster’s much better than Fox because Fox has never gotten it right. Fox pollster I don’t know who he is, but he hasn’t had a clue for about seven years. Let me just tell you that CNN gave us an increase of 10 or 11 points in just a short period of time that we went up and now they call it margin of error. Don’t believe it. We’re way beyond the margin of error don’t believe it.
I just got back from Texas and Florida and Ohio. We were all over the place. We went to great states and every roadway and highway, we had thousands, tens of thousands. I would say at least on each one a hundred thousand people from the plane, because that’s why this isn’t a rally. This is again, friendly protest. We were not allowed to do rallies, right? Because of rules and regulations which we want to adhere to. But from the plane to an oil well, from the plane to getting law enforcement, all of the sheriffs in Florida gave us their full endorsement
And in Ohio we went to a plant Whirlpool. They were out of business, they were going out of business and now they’re a thriving company because they were dumping washing machines and dryers into our country and I stopped it. And I said, “You want to do that? We’re putting a massive tariff.” And all of a sudden Whirlpool and thousands of people that work in Ohio and other places it became a really terrific company again. And we went there. But if you look at the kind of enthusiasm we have, we have never had the enthusiasm that we have right now and that includes 2016.
And I hate to say it and I don’t want to be rude because I would never be rude. But let me just tell you Joe Biden has no enthusiasm. No enthusiasm and you don’t win without enthusiasm. People aren’t saying we got to get him in. The only reason they want him in is they want to stop our great agenda. That’s the only reason, that’s the only thing he has going. And nobody wins when you’re not on the side of enthusiasm. So we have more than we ever had in 2016. And in 2016 nobody has ever seen a campaign with that kind of enthusiasm. And we have much more now.
But the socialists will not stop until they’ve ransacked America and laid waste to our cities. Your eyes don’t lie look at Portland. It’s been turned into a war zone and we want to go in and solve it. We saved the courthouse, do you believe it? We had to send in Homeland security. They were great. They easily saved it after it was pounded. Portland was supposed to be watching it, but they weren’t. So we sent them in and we will send in the national guard just like we did in Minnesota. You saw what happened there, Minneapolis. The national guard went in within 15 minutes the whole thing was over. They should have called them in a week earlier.
My beautiful, beautiful fifth Avenue in New York has been looted in pillage. It was allowed to happen by an incompetent mayor that doesn’t have a clue. Look at what’s happened to our diamond. New York was a diamond for the country. Look how far it’s gone down. And Chicago, the mayor literally raised up the drawbridges to prevent hordes of rioters from ransacking the city. Can you believe it? Can you believe it? 17 officers were injured in Chicago. They had a week. A little while ago during a weekend spree where 78 people were shot-
During a weekend spree where 78 people were shot and 18 died. That’s worse than Afghanistan, which we’re getting out of. That’s worse than Iraq, which we’re almost out of. That’s worse than Syria, which we’re out of, except we kept the oil, but that’s okay. We don’t have to talk about that. But this is the future that Joe Biden plans to bring to every city, town, and suburb in our nation. And you know, for those suburbs, I keep hearing about suburban women. I made the … Oh. Well, in one speech recently, I called you suburban housewives and they all loved it, but what I got, they said, “Sir, I don’t know if that’s politically correct.” I said, “Don’t worry about it. They’ll get over it.” Right? But we saved the suburbs. The suburbs, and you know what I’m talking about. And they said about the rule, it’s a rule. Very strong. It’s like a law. They said, “Sir, we can amend it.” I said, “No, I don’t want it amended.” “No, we can really amend it. Bring it down.” “No, I don’t want it. I want it terminated.” And we terminated it. It’s gone. And it’ll be re-instituted if Joe Biden comes in.
Not by him, because he has no idea what the law says or what it means, but by the people that will be running our country. It will not be him. It will not be him running our country. They will turn every city into a Portland and they wouldn’t mind. No one will be safe in a Biden run America. But while I’m president, the United States will use every tool and we’ve done it. By the way, our country is doing great. We have the pandemic should have never been allowed to happen by China. Should’ve never been allowed to happen.
They released it. They didn’t release it in China, but it came to the United States and Europe. 188 all over the world. 188 countries all over the world. We’re not going to forget it. We’re not going to forget it, but we’re doing great coming back. We’re coming back and our numbers are better than almost all countries. I will tell you that. Despite what you hear. Look at all of them up there. Scott, look at all of that fake news. It’s unbelievable.
Unfortunately, Fox has become fake news too. I don’t know what happens to these people, right? Do you agree? At least the other side, you know where they’re coming from. But I’ll use every tool at my disposal to arrest those violators of federal law and put them behind bars. And that’s what we’re doing. When they were ripping down the statues, our great statues, they were ripping them down. I passed and signed something that’s beautiful. It says 10 years in prison if you knock down a statue. Amazing.
What happened? What happened, Scott? I don’t see it anymore. Now they go up and they look at his statue and they say, “I don’t know. 10 years is a long time.” They say, “Let’s get out of here.” But did you notice that three months ago, I signed it. They will get to have thousands of people march on Washington to rip down statues. And these people are sick. They’re anarchists. They were going to knock down Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln. He was fair game. Abraham Lincoln. So I said, “These people are sick. They are troubled individuals. They’re anarchists and agitators. They’re not just protestors.” They call them peaceful protestors. You’re peaceful protestors on the record. You’re peaceful protestors.
And by the way, you’re a lot … Look at this guy over here. Look at the size of that guy. You’re a lot tougher than they are. Just so you understand that, right? Look at the size of that guy. But Biden and Harris are pro-crime and anti- cop. There’s no other way to say it. And we’re anti-crime, we are pro-cop all the way. I’ve gotten the endorsement. I got the endorsement. Pat Lynch, New York City police. They gave us an endorsement first time, I think. He said I think it’s the first time they’ve ever done it. That means it’s been a long time. They don’t do that kind of thing. They endorsed me. All the sheriffs in Florida endorsed me.
What you have all of the law enforcement in Texas endorsed me. We’re getting endorsement from … We haven’t found anybody that won’t endorse in law enforcement. We haven’t found anybody, and if we do, I think they’d probably be in big trouble. I really do. I think they’d be in big trouble because nobody could figure it out. We are getting the endorsement of law and these are great people. These are great Americans. These are people that want our people to be safe. So, we’re thrilled today to be joined by county sheriffs from across the state, and I am deeply honored to receive the endorsement of more than three dozen Wisconsin sheriffs. Where are you? Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Thank you, fellas. They’re good looking people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I like that mask. MAGA. I wonder if he supports Trump? He’s got MAGA this big. I wonder if he’s a Trump … Hey, thank you, sheriffs. We appreciate it. Good looking guys. Good looking guys.
And I’ll never let you down, sheriffs. I’ll never let you down. You know that. We gave you all of the surplus equipment. We had millions and millions of dollars of surplus equipment and Obama and Biden didn’t want to give it. They didn’t want to give it. They thought it looked too militaristic, meaning it was … A lot of it was really defensive equipment so that we can keep our law enforcement safe. And I distributed it. All of hundreds of millions of dollars. It was sitting there drawing dust and warehouses that we were probably paying a fortune for all over the country, and you got it. We all got it. Everybody got it. And everybody’s happy.
As president and as your president, I will always stand with law enforcement, and that’s something that I can’t even imagine anybody saying anything differently, but this other side does. They say it differently. I mean, nobody can even understand it. This November, the voters of Wisconsin will not surrender their beloved state to the left wing mob, and that’s what would happen. In 78 days, we’re going to stop the radical left. We’re going to win the state of Wisconsin and we are going to win four more years.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
And then after that, we’ll go for another four years because you know what? They spied on my campaign. We should get a redo of four years. We caught them spying on the … Can you believe it? Did you see the FBI agent? He agreed. He’s pleading that he forged documents. Oh, that’s that’s good. No no. Wait until you see. It’s going to be incredible, but they spied on my campaign. They spied on our campaign. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. You can call it whatever you want. I use the word treason. They got caught. They got caught. The same people doing speeches on tape tonight. They got caught. So it’s too bad.
So, we have some great friends with us tonight. I want to thank representative Glenn Grothman. Glenn, thank you very much. And Jim Sensenbrenner is around here someplace. Thank you, Jim. Thanks, Jim. These guys are warriors. Also, a woman who did so great, she was so great in Michigan. She headed up Michigan. And a Republican hadn’t won Michigan in many, many years. And we got a lot of car companies building right now in Michigan. Don’t we? Ronna McDaniel, Ronna McDaniel. We won Michigan. I said, “Get me the woman that kept calling me in Michigan. You have to come one more time, sir.” I said, “This is it.” Then I’d leave and she’d call the next day. “One more time.” But you know, she did a great job. Thank you very much. Ronna’s fantastic. Head of the RNC.
And the head of the Wisconsin Republican party, Chairman Andrew Hit. Andrew, wait, how are we doing, Andrew? Looking good. Beautiful kids, Andrew. Good. Good. I’m going to blame you, Andrew, if they don’t do it. Okay. I’ll fire you so fast Andrew. Andrew’s done a great job. Thank you. I think we are looking great here. We won it last time and you remember what a big shockwave because the Republican hadn’t won it for a long time and they were waiting for Pennsylvania and we won Pennsylvania and we had lost every vote. We would have won, but they didn’t want to call it. It got later and later and later, then Wisconsin came in and then Michigan came in and then Pennsylvania came in. By that time, we already had North Carolina. It’s hard for Republicans. You have to run the whole board, because they started off that we’re going to play for New York. With all of the crime in New York, I got to play for New York, because we did well in New York. We did well in New York, but we’re going to play for New York.
We’re going to play, I don’t know, guess we’ll do a little bit of a tiny shot maybe in California. They like me. And we’ll do a tiny little shot in Illinois. The other one we’re going to do, we’re going to go after New Jersey, we’re going to go after Virginia. We have a crazy governor of Virginia. He doesn’t want you to have guns and he doesn’t mind not only abortion, he doesn’t mind execution, because after birth, we’ll decide what to do with the baby, right? No, no. After. You hear this guy? First time I had heard of it. Scott, after birth, we will decide and we will discuss with the mother. And that’s the first time I’ve heard of it. This is the guy that likes to pretend he’s Michael Jackson, right? With the dancing. His wife saved a great embarrassment.
We have another great friend of mine. A great, great politician, but really, he’s much more than a politician. He’s an exceptional human being. He is tough. I had to go against him of those presidential primaries and I want to tell you, there’s nobody tougher, but he basically loves this state. I mean, he loves this state and he should be your governor right now. He should be. He’s an exceptional man. Scott Walker, governor Scott Walker. Thank you.
I’ll tell you one thing. He’s one of the most respected men. He goes into Washington, everybody stands up. They really do respect him a lot. And it’s really something. The next time you run, please don’t put marijuana on the ballot at the same time you’re running. You brought out like a million people that nobody ever knew were coming out, right? Because there was no way, but you can do whatever you want. You know that. You’re going to be successful, whatever you want to do. Thank you very much God for being here.
So, before the virus came in from China, unemployment in Wisconsin had reached the lowest rate ever recorded. Ever recorded. That was part of Scott’s thing too. I have to give him a little credit there, right? I have to do that. But we created 15,000 Wisconsin manufacturing jobs. Everybody said that would be impossible. 121, 000 Wisconsinites were lifted out of poverty and 100,000 were lifted off of food stamps because they had good jobs.
And we had created the single greatest economy in the history of the world. Our national economy was better than any economy that had ever happened before it. And China was having the worst year they had in 67 years. Not that I want that, but we took in billions of dollars. Nobody ever judged China for doing anything. What the money they took out of our country for so many years and the presidents that preceded me should be ashamed of themselves for allowing it to happen. And that includes sleepy Joe is part of that too.
But then we were hit by the virus and I had to close it up. I took the greatest economy and I closed it up and we saved millions of lives, as many lives. It shouldn’t have been one, but what you see today, you could multiply it times 10 or 15 or maybe even 20. It would have been a horrible … It would not have been sustainable, and now we’re bringing it back and we’ll bring it back so strongly. I took unprecedented action to save the U.S. economy and support Wisconsin families. Under our Paycheck Protection Program, we helped save over 1 million Wisconsin jobs. Earlier this month, I issued a directive granting emergency payroll tax relief to every worker making under $100,000 per year.
And this temporary relief will help tens of millions of American workers. That is something that people really … I’ll tell you, the great economists, that’s what they wanted. The payroll tax cut more than any other thing and it really applies. Number one, they open their business. It’s great for them, but really great for you, and it’s a big saving. It’s a lot of money in your pocket. If Republicans win in November, we will forgive these payments in full.
Thanks to my administration’s policies, we’re now witnessing the fastest … And you’ve seen this, right? The fastest economic recovery in the history of our country. Over the past three months, we have already gained much more than nine million jobs nationwide. That’s a record. That’s not even close by the way.
Nationwide, that’s a record. That’s not even close by the way. And you heard about the V, the V, the famous V and they said, “Well, maybe not a V. It’s got to be an M. It’s got to be an S. It’s got to be,” they have no clue. It’s turned out to be a super V because the numbers are much better. When you see the numbers coming, retail spending has fully recovered and is now at an all time high. And auto production has surged 28%. And in leaving the great plane right behind me and we have a lot of televisions, we have televisions in closets. I was saying to another group, we have televisions on floors and ceilings. You can’t escape it. If you want to get away from Trump, you can’t be in that plane because … the fake news and Trump, they’re going to go out of business. When I do leave, in let’s say 16, 20 years, something like that. No, when we leave, they’re all out of business. I wouldn’t say that sleepy Joe would be very exciting to cover. I don’t think a lot of, “Let’s turn on the television, let’s watch what Biden’s saying today darling.”
But I just noticed on television that NASDAQ, that’s a big deal. NASDAQ hit an all time record today. The highest price ever, and the others are right behind it. I mean, who would think, we have a pandemic. I think we’re way on the other side of the pandemic, we’re doing great with vaccines and therapeutics and everything else, but regardless, we’re doing great with it, but who would think that we hit a record with NASDAQ and the others are right there. If you would have said we’re at 28,000 on the Dow, or just about and if you would have said NASDAQ hit a new record high, that’s great for your 401k’s.
Look, you get the wrong person in here, your 401k’s, wave goodbye to them. There’ll be worthless. There’ll be worthless. 401ks, that’s one of the things. A lot of people are bragging. About four months ago, they were very depressed. I said, “Don’t sell, don’t sell. Don’t worry about, don’t sell, forget about this.” And most people held and they’re very, very good. But husbands come up to me and wives come up to me. And one wife was saying, “Sir, I always thought my husband was a financial loser, a total loser.” He was this big good-looking policemen actually. And she said, “He’s never been good with money, but over the years, over the last few years, I think he was up 89%.” I said, “That’s not as good as most people.” She said, “No, no. My husband is a financial genius.” And this good looking policeman looked at me and said, “Thank you, sir, because I was abused for a long time about the way I invested money.”
And your 401ks are great. And your stocks are great. Then you see these big companies going up, that’s everybody, the stock market. That’s everybody. That’s just an indication. And they’re smart people. They know where it’s going. They have an instinct that’s better than most people. And they see what’s happening. Now with all of that, we have a headwind and the headwind is if for any reason we didn’t win, that stock market is going to go down like a rock goes through water. I hate to tell you folks, so good looking. If we didn’t have that headwind, your stocks would be even higher right now, even higher. So on election night, expect your 401k’s and your stocks to go very, very high. And I do believe we’re going to have a tremendous success. I do believe.
Again, the most enthusiasm that anybody has ever seen in any election is this one. The most enthusiasm. So we got to get out and vote. You got to be careful with your ballots. Be careful, your absentee ballots great. Your others, you got to be very careful or go to vote. Just go to vote. Go to vote. We have a little problem here. You have a Democrat governor who is will do anything to turn things around. How’s Tom Tiffany doing, by the way? Another win, we just had a nice win, right? Tom is around here someplace. Tom Tiffany just had a great win. We’re winning a lot. We’ve won a lot of House seats. We’re going to definitely, we’re going to take back the House. We’re going to take back the House.
As part of our great rebuilding the U.S. military we also signed a $5.5 billion contract to build combat ships in Marinette, Wisconsin, supporting thousands of jobs. We’ve totally rebuilt our military. We’ve spent $2.5 trillion, all made in the USA, all made in the USA. We have new fighter jets. We have new rockets. We’ve upgraded our nuclear, hope to God we never have to use it, but nobody’s even close. It was getting very tired. What we’ve done with our military is incredible with tanks. Speaking of tanks, we left our great tank, I was supposed to close down, we have a tank factory in Lima. Lima, Ohio, and it was scheduled to close. And I went to see it. And I said, “No way, we’re closing it because there’s no way we could ever reproduce that incredible,” and you know what happened? We didn’t close it. And we are buildings tanks like you wouldn’t believe. But what we’ve done with our military has been incredible.
And Biden has promised to slash our defense budget, destroying critical jobs. But more importantly, if we don’t have defense, everything we talk about is meaningless. We have to have defense. Defense of our country, especially when you look at what’s happening outside of our borders. So we have the greatest, right now when I took it over was totally depleted. It was gone. Right now, we have the greatest military we’ve ever had, the greatest equipment by far we’ve ever had. If Kamala and Biden are ever elected, this recovery will come to a total shutdown to use their word permanently. For no scientific reason. Biden wants to inflict dramatic harm on millions of Americans with his basement strategy, locking everyone in their homes.
You look at what’s happening with some of… And you got a dose of it right here, I hate to say, with some of these Democrat governors, they just don’t want to open it up. By the way, on November 4th, they’ll announce, “Well, we’ve decided to open.” November four. You got to get out to those polls. I’m serious. This is the most dangerous election we’ve ever had. The most dangerous, because I don’t think we can ever bring it back if they get in. I don’t think there’s anything called the comeback. It’ll be another Venezuela. I used to say that lightly. I now say it very strongly because it’s a similar ideology. This will be a large scale, very large scale, Venezuela if they win.
We’re going to win. My administration by contrast is following the science, applying common sense, mitigation, sheltering, you know this, we got a shelter. We got to take care. But what do we really have to do? We have to take care of our elderly people, our elderly people with heart problems, with diabetes, and we’re launching Operation Warp Speed to deliver effective treatments and ultimately a vaccine and therapeutics. More than 270 therapies are in clinical trials. Can you believe it? 270. And you’re going to be hearing some very good news very, very soon.
Now, we’re dealing with the deep state. So I’m watching it very closely. I don’t need to have them announce on November 4th, “Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve found the vaccine, it’s perfect.” I don’t need that. And hopefully everyone’s looking to do the right thing. We want to get it out quickly, but we’re very close, both on therapy and on therapeutics and on vaccines. Advances in treatment have reduced the fatality rate in adults by 85% since April. Think of that. Three vaccines are in the final stage of clinical trials and we’re mass producing doses already of that vaccine because we think it works and we’re going to have it out very quickly. We will defeat the China virus. We will have the greatest economy that we’ve ever had next year, unless somebody wants to quadruple your taxes and the crazy things that they’re talking about, we will have next year, the single greatest economy we’ve ever had. So Biden’s been there for 47 years and he’s personally supported every globalist sellout of the last half century. He voted for NAFTA. One of the worst trade deals in history. For the China entry into the World Trade Organization, a total catastrophe. For Korea, the Korean deal was horrible. We renegotiated it. Now it’s a really great deal for us. One in four U.S. manufacturing jobs disappeared almost overnight. Biden was strongly in favor of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Would have destroyed our automobile manufacturing business. It would have been a disaster for our country. I ended it, but I approved the Dakota Access Pipeline immediately. The Keystone Pipeline, 48,000 jobs.
One of the great rip offs. It was done in my opinion, to hurt our country because we have so much energy. We’re now energy independent was I got out of this horrible Paris Climate Accord, which was a rip off on our country. It would have shipped millions of American jobs to China while allowing China to pollute with impunity. And they don’t even enter the agreement until 2030. So, it would have been a disaster. So many things are stacked against us. Even in the World Trade Organization, China is considered a developing nation. Therefore, they get tremendous, guess what? We don’t accept it. We’ve informed them, we don’t accept it. And we’re not approving any of those judges until such time as that ends.
So time and again, sleepy Joe Biden put China first and America last, even to a point where his son who had absolutely… Where’s Hunter, has anyone seen Hunter? He’s had absolutely no experience, walked away with one and a half billion dollars to manage, that’s millions of dollars a year. And if you go to the pros of Wall Street, they’ll tell you it’s an impossibility. It was a 10 minute meeting. He walked away with one and a half billion from China. How do you think he’s going to do negotiating, Biden against China? Nobody’s done what I’ve done to China, to Russia. By the way, remember, we were going to be in a war with North Korea. What happened to the war? We’re getting along Kim Jong Un. We get along. Let’s see what happens. And meantime, it’s almost four years. Remember we were going to be in a war.
Look at all those people back, that’s a lot of people. That’s a lot of people. Look at all the fake news. Isn’t that incredible. That’s a lot of fake news back there, Scott. At the end of Joe Biden’s eight years as vice president, nearly 2 million Americans of prime working age had dropped out of the workforce. Our factories were stolen. Our country was doing lousy. He lost nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs. He was, by the way, a disaster on swine flu. He got a horrible rating in Gallup. Look at the Gallup poll. So they call it H1N1 right? You remember? H1 swine flu, H1N1. He calls it N1H1, but I don’t hold them in that one. That’s one of the small mistake. The bigger mistakes is what he says He’s at a different state when he’s speaking. “Great to be in the great state of Ohio,” but no, no, no, we’re not in Ohio.
You know what you know what you do when that happens? You just walk off because there’s nothing you can do to recover. It’s happened to him like what, six times? Almost every time. That’s why he doesn’t talk. He’s shot, he’s shot. We got to say, look, one thing I’ve learned Putin, President Xi of China, Kim Jong Un, Erdogan of Turkey. They are world-class chess players. We can’t have a guy who’s shot and in his best years wasn’t very good. He wasn’t very good. We can’t have, these guys are world-class chess players.
They’re all dreaming of Joe Biden. I’ll tell you who’s dreaming about them is Iran. If we win, and when we win, we are going to have a deal with Iran immediately. They’re just waiting, hoping that Biden gets in. Hoping John Kerry is saying, “Oh, he should have…” He, by the way, if anybody violated the Logan Act, it was John Kerry. John Kerry, not General Flynn. John Kerry.
The cost of health insurance for American families had skyrocketed under Obama and Biden by $4,800 and nearly 11 million more Americans were on food stamps. So Biden’s abysmal record, but you do have to check swine flu because that was peanuts compared to this monster. This monster is the worst thing that’s happened in this world since 1917. Where it could have been a hundred million people died. Swine flu though, look at his ratings in Gallup, check them out. They gave them really bad ratings, Joe Biden. Not that that matters, but that does matter. When a guy is critical and we’ve done an incredible job, including among the best numbers in the world, Joe Biden’s abysmal record-
Among the best numbers in the world, Joe Biden’s abysmal record of failure and betrayal ended the day I took the oath of office. We got our people back working. We made real deals with foreign countries.
I told Japan prime minister, Robbie, great guy, but I said, “Prime minister, you have to build places in Michigan. You have to build your places in other areas of our country. It’s not fair. We have a big deficit. Go to Wisconsin, go to Ohio, go to these places.” He said he’s going to do it. Many, many Japanese plants now are being built all over our country. Somebody had to ask him to do it. Somebody had to tell them to do it. It’s not fair. And it was all happening. Then it came in, now it’s going out, watch what’s going to happen. Watch how good the third quarter is. The third quarter is coming up right before the election. Watch how good Scott Walker … even you will be impressed by those numbers, even Scott.
But we passed massive tax cuts. We passed massive regulation cuts, and you know what? You might not feel this, maybe the most important thing I did for making the economy great wasn’t just the tax cuts, it was the regulation cuts because the regulation cuts allowed companies to go out and build projects that they couldn’t get approved for 15 years and 20 years. Big deal.
We replaced probably the worst trade deal ever NAFTA with the brand new USMCA, which puts us right at the top. And now Canada and Mexico are doing what’s right for our country. It’s been a great deal. And when the Wisconsin timber industry was being threatened by administration, took immediate action. We imposed tariffs on dumped foreign goods and subsidized products, saving countless timber jobs all across your state, and you know exactly what I’m talking about. You were taken advantage of by stupid US policy. Canada was taking advantage of this country. Not anymore. If Biden and the crew get in, the radical left will bring timber production to a total halt. I stood up to China’s decades of trading abuses. And when China targeted our farmers, we provided $28 billion in relief, we gave our farmers. I said to Secretary Perdue, secretary of agriculture, “Sonny, how much they’ve targeted our farmers. How much have they been targeted for? ” Sir, two years ago it was 12 billion, last year it was 16 billion, 28 billion total.” I said, “Guess what? We’re charging tariffs of $28 billion to China.” We charged so much more and we gave 12 billion, and 16 and 28. We gave … any farmers in here, any farmers? Did I do a good job for you, please? I don’t hear any farmers complaining. Am I right? We did a good job.
I’ll tell you what, with a more typical president … I want to be nice, more typical, every farmer would be out of business right now, but we gave 28 billion to the farmers think of that. And the farmers are doing well. And then we signed a deal with China. And I was very excited because I had a very good relationship with President Xi. We signed a great deal. And under the deal, they would buy $240 billion, 50 billion of farm product and then manufacturing. Once the China flu came in, once the China stuff came in, I was not … really, I wasn’t, I couldn’t, it was different. But I have to tell you, four days ago, the corn order was the largest corn order in the history of ordering corn.
It was the biggest China ordered two days. The biggest order in the history of corn. Then they did, if you look at soybeans, it was the largest soybean order in history, in history, and also beef cattle, et cetera. So it just shows you how smart China is. We sign a deal and the plague comes in. It might’ve been a mistake. It might’ve been on purpose. Who knows what happened? We’ll figure it out. But whatever it was, it was no good. They could have stopped it. But they know my attitude, I don’t like it. I don’t like it. So a normal country that’s not so smart in that position, Scott would have said, “Oh, we don’t like the way he’s talking about us. Let’s immediately shut down.” He didn’t do that. They said, “Let’s order more from the farmers than we’ve ever ordered. Biggest corn, biggest soybean, biggest cattle.”
And now I’m getting my farmers saying, “Sir, we’re starting to like China.” I said, “You know what? We got to be very careful. Do you understand that?” So what they’ve done is they’ve gone out, they’ve made massive orders. So think how smart that is. 99% of people in that position would say, “Well, we’re not going to order anymore.” They say, “Let’s order so much that they become almost reliant on us.” Very smart, very, very smart. America has spent nearly four years cleaning up the mess we inherited from Joe Biden’s 47 year worth of disaster.
It’s incredible. He’s in there for 47 years, he does nothing. Now all of a sudden, he’s going to do all these things. He’s going to get tough on China. Sure. China will own the United States if we don’t make this deal and we will [inaudible 00:51:00] if we don’t get elected, China will own the … mark by word. Well, I hope you’re not going to be able to test it out. China will own the United States. Iran will insist on an even better deal than they made with Obama. They got $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash, green cash for nothing. We got nothing out of that deal. And I terminated that deal. I terminated that deal. And we moved the capital of Israel to Jerusalem. That’s for the evangelicals. It’s amazing with that. The evangelicals are more excited about that than Jewish people. It’s incredible. But we did, we did that. And Golan Heights, don’t forget Golan Heights. We did Golan Heights. So we’ve done a lot. In February, Biden said, “If you elect me your taxes are going to be raised. They’re not going to be cut.” Now [inaudible 00:07:05], how the hell do you do this? That will [inaudible 00:07:09]. Only in this state can we get away with it, but you happen to be right. You happen to be right. So I just want to say this. This has been an incredible experience for me getting to know you. I’ve been here a lot. We won this state. We weren’t expected to win this state.
We’ve been great for each other. We’ve been great for each other. It’s a partnership in a sense, but we’ve been great for each other. We brought a lot of business to this state. We’re bringing a lot more business to this state, whether it’s the ships, or the crops or any one of so many different things, especially maybe the trade deal with Canada and Mexico, because of Wisconsin and your specialized milk, a small subject, but the right farmers got me at the right time and they said, “Wow, you guys are really being taken advantage of with Canada charging you 287% tariff.” I think you mostly know about that. But unless you were up here a lot like I was, you’d never find that out. And I worked with Scott and I worked with others and we solved all of these problems. We solved all of them, Scott, right? This is the most important election we ever had. We’ve got to stop these radical left maniacs. We’ve got to win this election. We have many things to do. We want to finish it up. It’s no different. You plant a tree, it takes a little time to grab on. In addition, we have other things we’re going to do. More regulation cutting, even more tax cutting. We’re going to be doing very substantial tax cuts because that’s an incentive toward growth and we’re going to do it. And we prove to be right. We prove to be 100% right. We’re not letting them raise your taxes on you and destroy everything that we’ve done. So I just want to thank the incredible people of Wisconsin.
You really are. You really are. You’re a state that despite everything, everything that they were saying, “Well, Wisconsin, can’t be one.” Guess what? And I think we’re way far ahead. I do believe we’re way far ahead. Where we were, if you look back four years, I think we have much more spirit. You see, this as easier in a sense. Now, the virus made it a little bit more difficult, maybe a lot more difficult because all of a sudden, something happened that nobody ever even thought about, but we handled it. We handled it and we handled it well. And we’re now helping other countries with the ventilators and other things. But the easier part is, I used to come up as a businessman. I was very successful. And I’d say, “We’re going to do this. We’re going to do tax cuts. We’re going to …”
Even Space Force, I never even talked about Space Force, but we did more … somebody said we actually did more than we promised. That’s never happened with a politician before. We did actually more, but I never talked about Space Force. And then I got into office. I said, “We need that.” Because you look at what China’s doing, what Russia’s doing, what others are looking at. So we have Space Force first time in 78 years since the air force that that’s happened, full scale, so it’s great, and you’re a big beneficiary of that as you know. So we have to win the election. We can’t play games. Get out and vote. Do those a beautiful absentee ballots or just make sure your vote gets counted. Make sure because the only way we’re going to lose this election is if the election is rigged, remember that. It’s the only way we’re going to lose this election.
So we have to be very careful. Look, we have more than this election, that’s a big statement. The only way they’re going to win is that way. And we can’t let that happen. And our post office, we’re going to make our post office great. It’s been a disaster for many years. We’re going to take care of the men and women in the post office and we’re going to make it great. Right now it’s a laughingstock. Amazon and these companies come and they drop all of their packages into the post office. And the post office loses just hundreds of billions of dollars delivering these packages. Let them deliver it or let them pay the right price. So that’s it. But we’re going to make our post office strong. We’re going to make our post office really strong and really great.
We’re going to be proud of it again. It lost $78 billion in a short period of time over the last 12 or 13 years, $78 billion. We want to make our post office strong. We want to be proud of it. I want to thank you very much. You’ve been my friends, my true friends. We will win and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Well, thank you very much, Minnesota. There was supposed to only have like a hundred people. You know, we’re supposed to have these tiny little crowds. You can’t have any more than that. It’s very heavily restricted. That’s a lot of people showed up. I want to thank you. We’d love to have those rallies, but I guess you just can’t do that. And you’re not allowed to do that now. So we don’t do that, but we do the little airport hops and people like them and a lot of people come back. But unfortunately we had to hold off a lot of people in the back, which I feel badly about. In 78 days, we’re going to be. 78 days. We’re going to win this state. We’re going to take back the White House and we’re going to have an election that’s all about the survival, our nation.
This is a very important, in my opinion, I used to say 2016. And I must tell you, I think this is going to be the most important election in the history of our country. This is a very, very big deal going on. Joe Biden is the puppet of left wing extremists, trying to erase our borders, eliminate our police, indoctrinate our children, vilify our heroes, take away our energy. You know all about that. Take away our energy. If you can believe it. No fossil fuel. Destroy our second amendment, attack the right to life and replace American freedom with left wing fascism. Left wing. We’re going to left wing all the way. Fascists. They are fascists. Some of them, not all of them, but some of them, but they’re getting closer and closer. We have to win this election, but the proud people of Minnesota will not let this happen.
You will deliver a historic victory for our values, our citizens and our treasured way of life. We’ll save our cities in our suburbs from the future of crime and chaos, corruption, and economic collapse that puppet Joe Biden would unleash on America. This is a puppet. He won’t do it intentionally. He just says, “Well, whatever they want.” Because he has no clue. He has no clue.
I ended low income housing being built in the suburbs and destroying people’s American dream. You know that. If Biden and Harris get into power, they’ve pledged to raise your taxes by $4 trillion, which put in very simple terms, mean many of you will have to pay double and triple the taxes that you’re paying right now. This includes attacks of over $3,000 on a typical family of four. Biden Harris also pledged to eliminate fracking, natural gas, oil, and coal production. Forcing us to beg for energy from foreign suppliers. On my watch, America will proudly remain energy independent. First time, energy independent. We’ve met a lot of progress on energy.
I want to thank your terrific representatives in Congress, Tom Emmer. Where’s Tom? Tom, Tom, Tom.
Right here.
There he is, what a man. These are warriors. Jim Hagedorn. Pete Stauber.
And this is a very important one, fellows. This is very important. Your next senator from Minnesota. Fantastic man. I just see that he’s even in the poll. Normally that doesn’t mean much, but that’s a big step and he’s fantastic. Jason Lewis, he’s going to be a fantastic senator. That’s big, Jason. That’s ahead of schedule. And I hear we’re doing very well in the poll too. We win Minnesota, it is over. It is over, right? We win Minnesota. But our great Republican candidates for Congress, Michelle Fischbach. Where’s Michelle? Michelle? I hear so many great things about you. I have heard so many great things. Go out and do it. You’re going to do it. We’re going to be out there working with you. Tyler Kistner. Tyler. Tyler. Tyler. Good luck, Tyler.
It’s a great group. And man whose name I love, Lacy Johnson. Great job. I’ve been following you, Lacy. You’re doing good. You’re doing good. Thank you, Lacy very much. We really have to get them. They’re warriors, all of them, all of them. We have to get them in because we have to stop this craziness that’s going on. No law enforcement, no anything. They don’t know what they’re doing. They’ll lose the country. You know, there’s somebody said the other day and I say it very strongly, “Sir, you’re the only one between that and the greatness of the American dream.” And there’s truth to it. We don’t stop. We don’t keep this position. We’re going to win the House. I feel confident we’re going to win the House.
We are going to win the House. I’m very much involved in every single race and with the Senate, we’re working very hard. I think we’re going to be in great shape in the Senate. And I think we’re a great, did you see that CNN, they raised us 10 points in one poll that took place over a short period of time? And it’s still not good enough. It’s still not good enough. You mean they’re getting more honest because I’ll tell you what, there’s never been enthusiasm like we have. There’s never been. Right, Tom? Including in 2016, we’ve never had. We had more enthusiasm than anyone’s seen maybe ever in a presidential campaign and it pales in comparison to what’s going on right now. It does.
Even this, we wanted to restrict the crowd. We didn’t tell anybody and look at what happens. But look at Voters for Trump. Look at Bikers for Trump. They have highways with thousands of people, thousands of people, right? You know, bikers going, I don’t know if I’m driving along and I get passed by 2,000 bikers, I don’t know what I’m going to do. And then they have, they set Guinness book, I hear, the world record yesterday for boats. But no matter where you… In Florida, no matter where you go, a river, a lake, an ocean, there’re boats up there by the thousands on the wicker. The weekend is unbelievable. Minnesota Senate majority leader, Paul Gazelka. Paul. Thank you, Paul. Good job, Paul. Are we doing good? We’re doing good. Right? I think we are too. And Minnesota House Republican leader. Another great one. Kurt Daudt. Kurt, thank you very much. Thank you, Kurt, very much.
I’m having a lot of fun today because it’s so windy. You can’t see these teleprompters at all. So I’m sort of making it up as I go along and that’s okay. I’ve had to do that plenty. Now these suckers are blowing, like I’m saying “What that hell?” Fortunately, I know these people. If I didn’t know these people, you would have been in big trouble. I will tell you that. Another one I know very well, he’s the single greatest ad buyer in the history of the world. And he also happens to make a very good product. His pillow. I use it. When I sleep well, I’m using his pillow and these suckers are about to fall down, but that’s okay because I know him very well. Mike Lindell.
Mike, thank you. And he’s the chairman of our campaign. If I don’t win Minnesota with you as the chairman of our campaign, I would say that would be very bad for me because if this guy can do anything, thank you, Mike. It’s an honor and we appreciate it very much. Thank you. You do a great job. Thank you. And it’s all made in Minnesota, right? All made in Minnesota. Thank you very much. Before the China virus invaded our shores, we built the greatest economy in history. There was nothing like it. We were beating everybody, including China. They had the worst year in 67 years. We were taking in billions and billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. Beautiful thing tariffs, when used properly, especially when you’re being taken advantage of by every nation of the world. We achieved record low unemployment for African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, young people, people with diplomas, people without diplomas, college students, crummy students, great students, horrible students, dumb people, liberal people, conservative people.
Everybody was doing the best they’ve ever done. PhDs from MIT. PhDs from crummy colleges. Everybody was doing the greatest, the best they’ve ever done. Median household income soared to the highest level ever recorded. Numbers were unbelievable to open new opportunities for Minnesota farmers and factory workers. We replaced the disaster known as NAFTA with a brand new USMCA, which has been a big hit. Dairy exports to Canada are now expected to surge by at least 50%. I know how good the deal is. Don’t tell Canada I said this because they were not happy about it. They had pickets. When they have pickets about a deal, that makes you feel good. But they’ve been taking advantage. You know, Canada. Oh, Canada. Wonderful song. Right? Oh, Canada. Nice, nice song. Only one problem. They took advantage of us like crazy with your dairy tariffs, 297% tariff on your dairy products, right?
I learned that when I came up here, they had specialty milk, a little thing, specialty milk. And I met a farmer and he said what had happened with specialty milk. And that got me over the edge. And I said, “We got to change this,” because you were taken, Tom. You were taken advantage of by Canada very badly and by Mexico and by China and by Japan and by friends and foe. And in many cases, friends who are worse than the foe. For years, you watched as politicians like Sleepy Joe Biden who’s been in office for 47 years, allowed foreign nations to crush Minnesota’s mining. Look at your mining industry, it was crushed by dumping tons and tons of cheap iron and steel into our country. I saw what was happening. I did something about it. I did something about it.
I will tell you, China wants me to lose so badly. They all do. They all do. And yet I get along with all of them. Although China I don’t speak to them. After the plague came in, you know, we made a great deal with China. They announced last week that China ordered the largest amount of corn in history and the largest amount of soybeans in history and big cattle purchases. One of the biggest anybody has seen. And I said, “See how smart they are? If they weren’t smart, they would’ve stopped and we would’ve said let’s decouple.” But by ordering so much, the farmers come to me, “Sir, we like this deal a lot. Please don’t do anything irrational.”
How smart is China? Right? The biggest corn order. Think. They said the biggest corn order in history. So I have to say, “Ah.” But I tell you, my view has changed a lot. We’ve made a great deal with China, but my view has changed a lot. USMCA is the biggest deal ever made. And that one is working out great between Canada and Mexico. And remember this, Minnesota, under the last administration, the last administration, Minnesota iron range was wiped out. Seven plants were idled and more than 2,000 workers were laid off. Obama and Biden closed it down. Do you remember that? The finest iron ore in the world, they say, I don’t know, what do I know? To me it all looks the same, but they say it’s the finest iron ore in the world. That’s good enough for me. And what did I do? Almost immediately after getting into office, I heard about this disaster, just like Keystone Pipeline, just like so much else, Jason. And you’ll be working on that with me and in the beautiful halls of the Senate. And he’s going to stay with us. He’s not going to be one of those that gets elected.
He’s not going to be one of them that get elected and then he walks into those gorgeous buildings when they had those big, beautiful dollar bills and they built marble columns. And it’s so beautiful. And so rich, he’s not going to say, “Darling, we finally arrived. Now we can go with majority.” He’s going to do what’s right. He’s going to do what’s right. I know Jason, you need Jason, get Jason elected please. But they closed it up. And I was here and a worker. I was making speeches before you had to stand 200 feet away from everybody, before you had to stand like two football fields away. And a worker came up to me with a group of his friends and they were all crying and they were tough. They never cried before in their life. Maybe when they were babies but I doubt it.
They were all crying. He said, “Sir, you gave us back our life.” He said that. I had that just recently in Maine, they took away 5,000 square miles. Think of a square mile and then multiply it times 5,000. Took away 5,000 square miles. That was, O-Biden. As I call them, O-Biden. That was Obama and Biden short. I like that term. O-Biden, because you save a lot of time, but that was Obama and Biden in Maine took away 5,000, Mike, square miles. You know what that is? That’s like I said, “Let me see what it looks like on a map.” They basically took away the Atlantic ocean from Maine. And Maine is the greatest in the world for lobster and the greatest in the world, just about, for fishing. I said, “Why did he take this area?”
They didn’t know, except that was the great fishing area. And I gave it back to them. I redid it. I took it off. I wiped it out. I gave an executive order that wiped it out immediately. Then we wiped out the tariffs that they were being charged by China. And by, as you know, the United Kingdom was charging tariffs. They were all charging tariffs to our fishermen, but we don’t charge tariffs to them. So I made it. I made it fair. European Union was a disaster charging tariffs. They were charging big tariffs. We wouldn’t. So here’s what was happening. So Canada, they would sell the fish and lobster to Canada for nothing, for peanuts and Canada would then sell it to China and also to the European Union, because Canada had a deal where they didn’t have to pay the tariffs. This was before my time, how this could’ve happened is a…
They didn’t have to pay the tariffs. This was before my time. How this could have happened is incredible. So I said, “Listen, if you don’t change your tariffs, I’m going to put your tariffs on your car.” It was amazing. They said, “We’ll change them immediately.” Thank you very much. That took about two minutes. So I did a lot for Maine. We’re going to see whether or not they remember but I think Maine’s going to remember but I did similar for you when I opened up your great iron ore and I put tariffs, I put tariffs on foreign steel and the Iron Range came roaring back to life. You know that, right? Right?
These guys came up to me, “You’ve given us back our life.” I’ve never forgotten that, “You’ve given us back our life.” They didn’t say thanks, they didn’t say thanks for the job, they said that’s what they’ve done all their life and Obama just came in and closed it up. I don’t say Biden because I don’t think he knows what the hell is happening. I think if you mention … IF you mention, “You shouldn’t have done that to Minnesota,” he’ll say, “Where’s Minnesota? [inaudible 00:16:58]. I don’t know what Minnesota is. Where is that please?”
How many times by the way has he been up at a speech where he’ll say the wrong state, right? He’ll get up, “It’s great to be in the wonderful state of Ohio.” “Sir, sir, you’re in Florida.” That’s the bad one, when you see palm trees. Wonderful to be in Ohio. Or, “I love being with the people from Iowa.” “Sir, you’re in Idaho.” He always gets New Hampshire mixed up with Vermont. But all the time he does that. I haven’t done it yet. If I do I’m just leaving because there’s no way you can save it. There’s no way you can save it.
We recently issued a directive protecting workers on the Iron Range from unfair job-killing regulation and frivolous litigation in addition to everything else. We started construction on the new soo lock, right? Soo lock, big deal. That’s been deteriorating for many years. Just about gone and we’re redoing it now, rebuilding it. That’s a big deal for your state and for others so that the iron ore can quickly get to market. Soo lock. Our miners are back on the job and wages have increased by as much as 50% and they’re doing great even during the China plague, they’re doing great and the China plague will fade but we will not forget. If Biden wins, the Iron Range will be shut down forever. You know that. He’ll shut it down very early on forever. I took a lot of heat by doing that. I took a lot of heat from the so-called environmentalists. I’m an environmentalist too in a big sense. We just signed something the every day. Cory Gardner, Steve Daines, senators, great senators, and we signed a bill that’s going to really be something incredible from an environmental standpoint, the biggest we’ve ever signed they say, other than Teddy Roosevelt. It goes back to Teddy Roosevelt. I said, “Why is [inaudible 00:19:09]?” Because we also did something tremendous for Utah, you know that. Thousands and thousands of acres, we opened it up. I said, “Why isn’t it bigger than Teddy Roosevelt? I want bigger. Otherwise I’m not signing,” they said, “Sir, he did the Grand Canyon and a few other things.” I said, “All right. That’s pretty big.” Grand Canyon is big. Do we agree? Even from Mike Lindell, the Grand Canyon. Even Mike would admit the Grand Canyon’s tough to beat, right? So anyway, but we did. We signed it and it’s one of the biggest acts. They say the biggest thing environmentally done since Teddy Roosevelt. That’s a long time ago.
We achieved together and what we’re doing together is nothing short of an economic miracle and now we’re doing it again. We did it, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now I have to do it again. You know what that is? That’s right, that’s God testing me. He said, “You know, you did it once,” and I said, “Did I do a great job, God? I’m the only one that could do it?” He said, “That you shouldn’t say. Now we’re going to have you do it again.” I said, “Okay, I agree. You got me.” But I did it once and now I’m doing it again and you see the kind of numbers that we’re putting up, they’re unbelievable. Best job numbers ever, three months, more jobs in the last three months than ever before. Best retail sales in history. Best car sales, did you see where the car sales are actually above what they were? Did you see the manufacturing, remember you’re not going to have manufacturing back. You needed a magic wand for manufacturing, well we got the magic wand because the manufacturing numbers are through the roof and your state, last year had the best year it ever had, right? Best year it ever had and now you’re going to have something that’s even better. So I just want to tell you, we are going to do it again.
By the way, third quarter numbers come out and interestingly they will come out just before November 1 and we’re going to see how I did but I think you’re going to have a great third quarter. People are now starting to predict it much to their chagrin, right? Much to their chagrin. [inaudible 00:21:20] just like CNN said, “He’s up 10 points.” They all said, “10 points? 10 points?” First of all, the first poll was rigged and wrong. It was a rigged poll, just like they want to try and rig the election with all these mail-in ballots. Let’s send out 62 million ballots. Let’s send … Well, some people say, “Gee, you shouldn’t talk.” I got to talk about it because absentee ballots are good. You send for the ballot, you’re not going to be in your state and you get it back and you do something and you send it back in and it’s a process. You have to work for it a little bit. But these ballots, they want to send them out in some states, they want to send them out and they want to just have millions of ballots, they say, “Oh, we drop them in a lockbox.”
I just saw, the great thing about Air Force One, there’s no lack of television. You have televisions on the ceilings, in the closets, on the floors. No matter where you go, there’s a television. You open the closet, there’s a television. I say, “No, too much Trump. I can’t watch it anymore.” I try and get away, you put yourself in a closet. But they have a lot of stuff and they showed this person getting on FOX, you know FOX now puts on more Democrats just about than they do Republicans. They have certainly changed a lot. FOX has changed a lot. They’re probably turning off right now as I speak but I don’t … See I don’t care. I tell the truth. It’s ridiculous.
One of the biggest differences between this year and four years ago is FOX. FOX is like from a different planet, and too bad. And you know what’s going to happen? If we don’t win, they’re going to go down the tubes along with every other media outlet, they’ll all be bust, they’ll all be gone, I can tell you that. Nobody’s going to want to cover Sleepy Joe. We’ll end up with one very boring socialist country that will go to hell, but when you look at it and when you look at what’s happening, that’s why we have to win this election, and if we don’t win this election, every one of you, me, all of us, it will never be the country … I don’t think the country can ever come back to it.
I used to use Venezuela a lot. I don’t know if I even really fully believed it but I’d say, “Venezuela, we would indeed become.” When I look at these maniacs in Portland, these anarchists in Portland, when I look at these people, that’s what they want for the rest of the country. They want to defund their police, they want to terminate their police. You know something about that. You’ve had your little stance where they want to … Did they actually do the, they actually are terminating the police department, right? They are actually doing it. They’re not even talking about it, they’re terminating the police department. These people are crazy, and by the way, when I sent in the National Guard, that’s when it all stopped and I kept calling. I kept calling and saying, “Send in the National Guard. Send in the National Guard.” They should have done it a lot sooner.
That was a beautiful … I just said, I just stopped some place else and I said, “To me it was a beautiful sight.” They were rioting all over, full of venom, vigor. They thought nobody was going to stop them. The police department is very good but they were told you can’t do anything. They have to be able to do what they do very well. So they were told they couldn’t do anything and the city was ablaze. It was ablaze. I’ll never forget the CNN reporter, he’s standing there with his very nice shaved head. Right now I wish I had a shaved head, it would be a good [inaudible 00:24:55] wind, but you know what? He’s standing there, [Velshi 00:24:59], right? Ali Velshi, and he’s standing there, “Things seem quite calm right now,” and behind him, they have the entire city looks like it’s burning down for blocks. He’s standing there talking because the fake news doesn’t report the truth and they don’t talk about how serious it is and how bad it is.
But remember this, it’s only a small part of our country. It’s not a big part, very small but they don’t report the facts because they don’t want to report those facts because those facts are very bad for Joe Biden and for the radical left and they want them to win. For whatever reason I don’t know because they’ll all lose their networks, they’ll all lose their wealth, everything will be gone but they’ll figure it out someday but we’re not going to let them have that chance. As much as in many ways they should not be rewarded, they’re going to be rewarded if I win because our country is only going up in one direction so that’s the way it is.
To fight the China virus, we’ve enacted the largest financial relief package in American history, through the Paycheck Protection Program we saved one million Minnesota jobs. We’ve also delivered nearly five billion dollars in economic relief straight to Minnesota families, you know that, we’ve kept it all going, and we’d like to do it again, except the Democrats, all they want is one trillion dollars, one trillion. They’re not interested in the people, they’re not interested in the Post Office. It’s all a ruse, it’s all a con. They’re only interested in getting a trillion dollars, you guys know that, getting a trillion dollars for states that are badly run blue states, very badly run by governors and mayors like New York, Illinois, California, I won’t name any more because to be honest, he’s going, “Minnesota, I don’t know.” I don’t like to be so personal but you do have some issues, I will say that. Of all places I would be very surprised, I was very surprised.
Unlike Sleepy Joe Biden our approach to the pandemic is based on science, not left-wing ideology. Slow Joe opposed the travel ban on China that I instituted. Remember he came out, “Oh it’s xenophobic.” I said, “What does that mean Joe? Tell me Joe. Can you describe?” Remember he came out and he called me all sorts of things, a racist and everything and then he said I was right. I was early, way, way early. We would have lost hundreds of thousands of additional lives and that’s pretty much agreed by everybody. Then I put the ban on Europe coming in because they were ahead of us and when I looked at Italy and I looked at France and Spain I said, “We got to put it on,” and a lot of people didn’t want that, they said we were right about that, and then we started getting into the manufacturing business with the ventilators and all of the equipment and what we did is incredible. The governors were not prepared. We made a lot of governors look good by supplying massive amounts of equipment. Massive. Not one person in this country, we didn’t have very many ventilators at all. Way under-supplied. Not one person in this country that needed a ventilator didn’t get the ventilators so every single person that needed one got one which is pretty amazing.
We have a big country with a lot of diversity, a lot of different states, and now we’re supplying, we’re making thousands of ventilators a month and we’re supplying them to the rest of the word because they’re not equipped to make a ventilator. It’s very complex, very expensive. We’re making thousands a month, we have all we can use.
Now Biden wants to lock all Americans in their basement for months on end which would inflict permanent irreversible harm on our nation’s children, families, health and economy. By contrast my administration is following data-driven and science-based approaches that apply to common sense mitigation, aggressively sheltering those at greatest risk, our seniors, we have to shelter them, and deliver effective medical treatments to save thousands and thousands of lives and when you look at the rest of the world, you know they were trying to say, “Oh, we weren’t doing that.” Now all of a sudden a lot of the places that they were using to hold up, they’re having a big surge, and I don’t want that, I don’t want that, but they were holding up names of countries and now they’re saying, “Whoops.” In fact, even New Zealand, you see what’s going on in New Zealand? They beat it, they beat it. It was like front page, they beat it because they wanted to show me something. The problem is, big surge in New Zealand. So you know, it’s terrible. We don’t want that but this is an invisible enemy that should have never been let to come to this country, to Europe or the rest of the world by China. Just remember it. Just remember it. [inaudible 00:29:46]
The fatality rate for Americans over 70 has declined by 85% since April. We’ve learned, we know, we have some great things now too. Europe by contrast has experienced a 40% higher rate of excess mortality than the United States. Think about that, you don’t hear those stories, they don’t tell you that Tom, do they? You don’t hear that in Congress, right? We launched the largest mobilization of American goods since the World War II. Think of it, since World War II. This is the largest mobilization since World War II, creating the most advanced testing system in the world, producing thousands of ventilators and launching Operation Warp Speed to deliver and distribute a vaccine before the end of the year in record time. We’re at a very, very close point to the vaccine and to therapeutics and therapeutics to me are more important right now. You go into the hospital, whether it’s a transfusion or whether it’s a shot and you feel better two days later or a day later or three days later but now would be a great thing and we’re very close, we have great, great companies working on it.
Because we will defeat the China virus, we’re going to be stronger than we ever were. Next year is going to be record setting numbers and you see that when you look at the V. The V is turning out to be true. I was saying a V and everybody was saying a V is impossible but the V, it’s beyond a V, it’s a super V based on the numbers that we have now. So we’ll see what happens and we would like to give additional money to people. We would like to … It wasn’t their fault that they got hit by China but you know what? We want to give them additional money and we’ll take care of … Again, the Post Office has been a disaster for many, many decades. We want to strengthen the Post Office, make it good. It lost $78 billion over a relatively short number of years. $78 billion, I want to strengthen the Post Office and we can do it so that if you look, Amazon and all these companies that now do, it’s a whole new business, they just drop a lot of it right into the Post Office and we lose two and three –
… just drop a lot of it right into the post office, and we lose two and $3 every time we deliver a package. What’s that all about? And he gets richer, and they get richer. How smart is that? For every package they deliver, it’s two and $3 a package. So why aren’t they raising the prices to Amazon and to these companies that are making all this money? Instead, we pay for it, and they always seem to open their distribution facilities right next to a post office.
So they take a lot of the goods that they can’t distribute, because the post office is massive, much bigger than those companies, believe it or not, you wouldn’t think it, but much, much bigger. And they go to areas of Minnesota, and other states that you can’t reach, you’ll never reach, and they just dump thousands of packages into the post office and they say, “Good luck. Here’s your $2. Here’s your $1. Here’s your 52 cents.” Now we got to do that. So that’s my opinion. What do I know about delivery? What do I know? That’s my opinion. That’s a new business, but we’re being taken advantage of by all of those companies, and they should pay, not the people.
My administration also understands that economic health is vital to public health. Over the past three months, we’ve gained nine million jobs nationwide, which is a new record. Retail spending is fully recovered and is now at an all-time high. We have more retail spending now than we did before the plague came in from China. Auto-production surge, 28%. Joe Biden would crush this unprecedented economic recovery. During his 47 years in Washington, think of that, 47 years, Joe Biden. And it’s really amazing, for 47 years, he did nothing, now he’s telling everybody how he’s going to make it wonderful, right? It doesn’t work that way, and he’s not exactly prime time now either, by the way.
Joe Biden supported every globalist attack on the American worker, NAFTA, which was a disaster, TPP, which I didn’t allow to happen, the horrible Korea deal. South China’s entry into the World Trade Organization might’ve been the worst of them all, it created China. Now Biden is running on the most extreme far-left agenda ever put forward by a major party. Biden’s joint manifesto, we call it a manifesto, with Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, would raise taxes and increase regulations at an unprecedented rate. He will kill the stock market, he will kill everything that we’re talking about today. He’d also abolish immigration enforcement, abolish bail, abolish the suburbs, abolish effective policing, abolish American energy, and abolish the American way of life, otherwise, he’d do quite a good job, I think.
He raised his hand and pledged to give free healthcare to illegal aliens, okay? A lot of you people, you don’t get free healthcare, but he wants to give it. He wants to give lawyers, free legal assistance to people that come into our country illegally, and his vice-presidential candidate, Biden picked Kamala, Kamala Harris. She’s [inaudible 00:03:22], she’s a beauty, who co-sponsored a $32 trillion socialist takeover of healthcare and our country, because our country would be ruined, destroyed. And think of this, you have 33 in healthcare and $93 trillion on the socialist Green New Deal, which doesn’t work. It’s like written by a child. It’s written by a child, a foolish child. It’s written by a foolish child.
I have a very different vision for America’s future, you got to see it before the plague, but you’re seeing it again right now, even more so. It starts with creating 10 million jobs in the next 10 months, and that’s what’s happening. Over the next four years, we will cut even more taxes, substantially, and regulations. That’s why people are pouring into our country to open up factories, they’re bringing them back to Minnesota and every place else. In Michigan, we have auto plants opening up left and right, and expanding. They haven’t seen that in 42 years. We will end our reliance on China. We will make our critical drugs and supplies right here in the United States.
And when you see the drug companies, they’re very rich, very sophisticated, when you see them taking the ads against Donald Trump, those ads are for one reason, because I’m bringing your drug prices way down, I instituted a favored nations clause. So if Germany, or any place, anywhere in the world is getting their drugs for less, which they do, a tiny fraction of what we pay, they have to meet those prices. Somebody should’ve done this. Obama, Biden, other presidents should’ve done this. Our drug prices are many times higher than other countries. Many, many times. In Canada, the price is half and better than that, and I gave Florida, Ron DeSantis, a great governor, gave him the right to buy his drugs directly from Canada. He’s going to save half. So right now you can’t do that. I gave him and I gave another state, Colorado, the authority to, if they want, they could go buy, prior to the favored nations kicking in.
But the favored nations clause could reduce drugs by 50, 60, 70, even 80%. Think of that one. And I’m the only president in 51 years, that had a year, last year, where drug prices came down, but that was peanut stuff compared to what I’m talking about. So when you see those ads, if you don’t mind, and you see the drug companies hitting me, you’ll say, “Thank you, President Trump for reducing drug prices.” I guarantee you, if they were going up, they wouldn’t be taking ads. It makes sense, I guess, right? I hope people understand that, because they are spending a lot of money. They don’t like me. I did something that was unthinkable.
Check out the words, favored nation, check out the word rebate, because now I take the rebate for the people and I take the rebate to reduce the prices. They took the rebate, went to a middleman. The middleman, I never heard the term middlewoman, but I guess probably that too. But the middleman got all this money, I don’t know who they are, nobody knows who they are. The middlemen, you always hear it, they made more money than the drug companies. At least the drug companies made a product, but the middleman is not liking Donald Trump too much. I probably have a lot of friends that are middlemen. I don’t even know if they have beautiful homes. I say, I wonder where they made their money? They’re very wealthy, but they’re not so wealthy anymore.
We are getting the rebates. We’re keeping the money for our people. We will create tax credits for companies that bring jobs from China back to America, and we’ll impose tariffs on companies that leave America to produce jobs overseas. One of the things in the USMCA that was very important, I don’t want our companies going to Mexico, going to Canada anymore. I watched that. I was man of the year, 11 years ago in Michigan. I don’t know why, but they picked me. That was long before I thought in terms of running. Are we glad I ran?
Yeah.
I think so. I think so. What do you think? Yes? I think so. But that was long before I thought about this, Mike, and I was in Michigan, very nice, man of the year, that was great, and I said, “They’re taking your car companies and moving them all to Mexico.” Anyway, 32% of our cars are made in Mexico. How crazy? But it’s that way, that’s the way it happened. But I said, the most important deal in the USMCA, I don’t want anybody moving to Mexico, firing their people, moving there, making a car, selling it in for no tax. I don’t want that anymore, can’t happen, and that’s not going to happen. There is such a huge economic disincentive to do that.
So we’ll strip federal contracts from companies that outsource critical industries, we’re going to strip it. With the help of Minnesota workers, we will be the premier medical and pharmaceutical manufacturer anywhere in the world, and you see it already. The drug companies are starting to give up. Now, I’ll tell you, if for some reason, the other side happens to have a victory on November 3rd, forget everything I said. It’ll all be made in China Plus, it’ll all be made in other countries like Vietnam, and other places. And you can just forget everything I said, because they’re typical politicians, but radical left wing. They will go right back to it, but even more so.
To protect our families and workers during the China pandemic, I sealed our border against illegal immigration, and suspended the entry of foreign workers who threatened American jobs. And yet, if you’re a farmer, a factory owner and you had people coming in from years, we made it easier for those people to keep coming in. I can’t shut them off, you’d have to close up your businesses. Joe Biden, on the other hand, has pledged to allow virtually unlimited immigration during a global pandemic, spreading the virus, overwhelming our healthcare system, and displacing millions of American job seekers. The Biden plan would institute catch and release, I got rid of it, along the entire Southwest border. This is where you catch perhaps a murderer, perhaps a rapist. You catch somebody, you take their number and you release them. You say, “Please show up to court in three years,” nobody shows up. 1% show up. You know who the 1% are? The ones that aren’t very smart. They’re the ones that show up, they’re the only ones that show up.
So we’ve built almost 300 miles of border wall and we’re adding 10 new miles each way, and if we didn’t have that, we’d be in trouble because sadly… And the President of Mexico is a friend of mine, he’s a great guy, Lacy, he’s a great guy like you, but I said to him, “We have to do this, and in the meantime, you have to give us a lot of troops along our border, because we’re paying you a lot of money with your cars, and otherwise I’m going to have to tariff.” And he said, “No, no, no. We will give you troops.” We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border. Nobody’s coming through unless we want them to. We have to come in legally into our country on the Southern border and elsewhere. We have 27,000 troops. You didn’t even know that, Tom, 27,000.
Furthermore, Joe Biden has pledged to increase refugee resettlement by not a bad number, 700%. You read that, right? That’s in the manifesto. He would overwhelm Minnesota with refugees, from terror hotspots, depleting public services, burdening schools, and straining city budgets. You already know about the hotspots, don’t you? You know about it. You’re having plenty of problems in Minnesota. And I’m going to be so politically correct, I’m not going to say a thing, but I know all about your hotspots, you got some hotspots. Very unfair to Minnesota, I will tell you that. And I’ll tell you, if I don’t win Minnesota, I’m never going to do it if I run for a third or fourth term, okay? I’ll never be back if I run, I’ve given up. I almost won last time. One more speech, Mike? almost won. I went to Michigan, I had a choice. I shouldn’t tell you this, but we won Michigan. One more speech, I would’ve won. I was so close, but if I don’t win it this time, I’m not coming back, never. Not for term three, four, five, or six.
Under my administration, we’ve dramatically reduced refugee resettlement and we’ve suspended refugee resettlement during the pandemic, you know that we’ve totally suspended it, nobody comes in. Lucky we have the wall, we’re up to 300 miles almost. If we didn’t have that wall, we would be inundated with people and unfortunately, and we’re helping them, we sent them a lot of ventilators and other equipment, but Mexico is being overrun with the pandemic and we would really have a problem. We’ve completely reformed refugee policy. We’ve instituted rigorous national security checks. We protected religious minorities, and we’ve shifted refugee admissions away from terror afflicted nations, like Syria, and Somalia.
And remember, they say we don’t have it, we do have it. They understand that, they just don’t want to say it. We have a ban, you know that. We have a ban on people coming into our country illegally, we have a ban on countries, because we want people to come into our country who love our country, who can love our country, who respect our country, and who are going to come in on merit, merit, merit, which is the exact opposite of what was happening. Many of them hated our country and they didn’t come in on merit. All they do is complain. Do you know anybody like that? They just complain. Does anybody know anybody like that? Do you know anybody? One of your colleagues? You call her a colleague? All she does is complain. I won’t mention the name, because you’ll never guess, complains, complains, complains. I don’t like that. I don’t like it. All she does is complain, “Not good enough!” Oh really? Tell us about it.
To protect our security, my administration instituted a travel ban on the world’s most dangerous regions. Biden has pledged to immediately end this travel ban and allow unlimited migration from terror zones, including Syria, Somalia, Libya, Iran, and Yemen. Trouble, trouble. I also kept the promise I made to Minnesota four years ago. I signed an executive order requiring state and local consent before any refugees are admitted. Biden would immediately shred that executive order, overriding local communities like yours, you know that. Did you know I signed that? You have to give approval now. Little different than the old days, isn’t it, huh? A little bit different. The old days was a lot different, and I signed that approval. They have to go through a process now, and you have to approve it. Why should we send everybody up to Minnesota or any place else?
In recent weeks, Democrat-controlled cities have shown the Democrats’ plan and what they plan for America. In Minneapolis, 700 buildings were burned, damaged, or destroyed, costing more than $1 billion. I just left, incredible people. We were on a runway like this, and I introduced them. Their businesses were burned down, gone, and they don’t know what they’re going to do, but we’re going to try helping them to get them rebuilt. But five groups of people that were just incredible people, successful, wonderful people, their stores and businesses were burned down, destroyed. Dozens of business owners have announced they are considering moving hundreds of jobs out of Democrat run Minneapolis, you know that. You know that. Criminals are terrorizing civilians in-
You know that, criminals are terrorizing civilians in Chicago, Portland, and now New York City. This radical left Mayor de Blasio has let our beautiful diamond, I loved it, I left it four years ago. I could see there were the seeds of problems. He was there, but I left and it was wonderful. Four years ago I left it, and over the last year, especially over the last six months, crime has gone up hundreds of percentage points, hundreds. 273 points, 368 points. Numbers that you wouldn’t believe. And we’re talking about shootings, murders, you saw what happened this weekend. You saw that, Jason. Terrible. My city, I love that city, but it has great potential and we’re going to do something. We’re going to do something strong. They just let it go to hell and I don’t know is it because they’re bad people or they have no common sense, or they just don’t know what they’re doing? But our beautiful diamond, of this country, has been let go to hell.
Top Democrats have demanded the defunding of police departments. Biden even referred to the police at the enemy. And that’s what it is. He’s not going to control… look, he’s not going to control the situation. He’s dealing with… how about the congress woman that I watched over weekend, right? Saying, “I have total control over Biden. He’ll do anything I say. I have total control.” What she’s saying is, “I have total control over this jerk. He’ll do whatever the hell I want.” That’s putting it in more common language. But she said just as mean as that.
You know who I’m talking about, right? You saw that? What a horrible statement to make and frankly Kamala, nobody treated Joe Biden worse than Kamala. I mean, nobody. He was called a racist and just about everything else under the book. Then all of a sudden she saying, “He’s such a fine man.” Look nobody treated him, including Pocahontas, nobody on the debate stage, nobody treated Joe Biden worse than Kamala Harris and she’s got some big issues.
Congress woman Ilhan Omar-
No.
I mean I hear the boo’s. How the hell did she win the primary? How did she win the… [Lacey 00:50:26], what the hell happened Lacey?
[inaudible 00:50:28]-
Huh? It’s Jason’s fault. How the hell did she win? This woman is crazy. She’s a horrible woman who hates our country. Yeah, mail in vote, you might be right. We’ll have to check it. Let’s check the mail in vote. No, seriously how does a woman who hates our country, who says nothing but bad things about our country and Israel and other of our allies, how does this woman win? Where are the people that would vote for her? Omar called the Minneapolis police the cancer and said they were rotten to the root, but Joe Biden did not condemn the comments. He didn’t want to talk about it. He didn’t disavow her endorsement. He displays it proudly on his website. This is what’s going to be running the country.
This is the biggest change between what happened between now and Crooked Hillary. Crooked Hillary was bad news, right? Remember she said, “Will you accept the results of the election? Will you accept the results of this election?” And I sort of said, “Yeah, maybe.” But she didn’t accept them, right? I remember that question. That was probably the toughest question I had out of all of them. But she hasn’t been exactly a gracious loser. She’s a loser, but not a gracious one.
If Joe Biden and the radical Dems take power, they will pass legislation gutting every single police department in America. That’s going to happen. The Biden Bernie manifesto calls for appointing far left prosecutors, judges, and justices of the United States Supreme Court.
Look, we have a big thing with the court. The next president has a chance to do three, four, could even be five. You will change this country around. It will be irreversible. It will be irreversible and they’ll coddle criminals and punish law abiding citizens, these judges will. They’ll take away your guns while letting criminal gangs like MS-13 roam free. Your Second Amendment will… look it was under siege, but not really, because they had never… right fellows? They played the game with… they had no chance. When I’m here, they have no chance. Your Second Amendment is cherished. You need your Second Amendment. They will either take it away, or obliterate it into meaningless nothing.
In Joe Biden’s America, the protections of American citizenship will be stripped away and your community will be left at the mercy of the mob. I mean I’m saying these things, but I mean them. When I look at what happened in Minneapolis, when you look at what’s going on in different cities that are just unbelievable cities. Remember this though, most of the country is very safe. In fact, crime stats, outside of Chicago, New York, a couple of the crime stats are a record low. Our country’s… even during the pandemic we’re doing well, but where they’re run by the Liberal Democrats, we’re not doing well. And we have to get in. They have to ask us. We had to be asked here. They have to ask us unless we take a very severe action which ideally you don’t want to take. But every time we go in, we solve the problem and we solve it very quickly.
Seattle, look at what’s going on with Seattle. I mean this is a city. This is a real city and they took over a large portion of that city and they knew we were going in the following day. They knew it. So they sent their police in and it was like nobody ever gave up so easily as those characters. But they’re radical left anarchists. Whether you’re registered as a Democrat, Independent, or Republican, I’m asking for the vote of every American who believes that police officers are not enemies, but heroes who keep us safe.
I also want to send our special thanks to the members of the Minnesota National Guard who did such an incredible job stopping the rioting, violence, mayhem in Minneapolis. They were great. They were great. I love them. I love that. It’s just a beautiful thing. It’s the way it’s supposed to work. They cause problems, you have to do it. And the sooner you do it the easier it is to do.
My administration had made clear to every mayor and governor in the country that the federal government is ready to send the National Guard and federal reinforcements. We will wipe out the problem within minutes. You saw it happening right here. You wouldn’t have a city if we didn’t demand that that take place. You wouldn’t have a city.
All you have to do is say the word. Every voter should ask themselves a simple question, do you want the radical left policies of Chicago, Minneapolis, San Francisco imposed on the entire country? Look at Nancy Pelosi. San Francisco’s going to hell and she’s in Congress saying what we should be doing. Look at the homeless problem in San Francisco. Look at what’s happening in San Francisco and then she’s telling us about the post office. She has no clue and I must tell you this, does she love our country? Does she love our country? I don’t think so, to be honest with you. What she’s done is a disgrace to our country. What she’s done, and Schumer Crying Chuck. Crying Chuck. He cries whenever its important to cry. You want the failed policies of Mayor Bill de Blasio? Or Mayor Lori Lightfoot in Chicago?
No.
Or mayor Jacob Frey?
No.
Brought to every city and town in this nation? If left wing Democrats can’t run a city, why on earth would you let them run your country? We have such incredibly run cities. Such incredibly run cities. The problems with have are the radical left and now she wants one trillion dollars and she’s holding it up using a phony excuse of the post office because she wants a trillion dollars to go… and you guys all know this, she wants one trillion dollars to go to these badly run democrat cities and states. That’s what she wants and she’s using the post office. We want to fix the post office and make it better. Should have been fixed 30 years ago.
Over the next four years, we’re going to implement an aggressive strategy to fight violent crime. It’s already been implemented and we’ll expand the surge of federal law enforcement into crime plagued cities and we can do that at will. We just have to hear from your governor. Just call up, let us know, we’ll be there. We are ready, willing, and able.
… American child is safe on our streets. In which every American family is secure in their homes, and in which all of the American people are confident in our destiny. But to achieve this vision, we must finish the job and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. And get Jason in there please, Jason Lewis, get him in. Jason, you got to win. Get Jason Lewis. Jason Lewis. Got to win Jason. You’re certainly against a weak opponent. You got to win.
For years left wing politicians like Joe Biden talked about supporting American workers. Then they got elected and gave away your jobs, shipped away your factories, and they sold off your dreams, your beautiful, beautiful American dreams. They sold them off to the highest bidder. But under this administration, those days are over. Now you have a president who is fighting for you.
Over the next four years, we will fully restore America’s manufacturing independence. We will again rebuild the greatest economy in history. It’s happening very fast. You’re going to see it very soon. I’d lift it to even more incredible heights than what we had last year. You had the greatest year in the history of your state last year. We will revitalize police departments and reclaim our cities for law abiding Americans. We will protect religious liberty, defend the lives of our beautiful unborn children, appoint conservative judges, uphold free speech on college campuses, and safeguard the Second Amendment. The right to keep and bear arms.
We will ensure American dominance in space and in military and pave the way to becoming the first nation to plant its flag on Mars. We’re working on that, we’re doing very well. By the way when I took over NASA, it was dead. It was gone, right? It was gone. There was nothing. There was grass growing on the runways… grass, through the crevices on the runway. It was terrible and now it’s the most vital space program anywhere in the world. Not only the jobs, but the importance of it and the psychology of it, and by the way, for military defense. And we created Space Force. Think of that, we created another one of many, many things. First time in 78 years. Last one was the Air Force, right? Space Force, that’s a big deal. By itself. If a president did that, they would have achieved something. We did that and we did hundreds of other things.
We will teach our children to love our country, to honor our history, and to respect our great American flag. We will never waiver in defense of our families, our values, our faith, our jobs, our borders, our rights, or our freedoms. Together we will unite citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed as one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
I want to thank you, you are incredible people, Minnesota. Thank you very much. I’ll be back. November 3rd, we have to win. God bless you, God bless the great state of Minnesota and God bless America. Thank you all very much.
Thank you very much. What a nice group of people. They’re not treating you right, but we’re going to treat you right. They’re not. They’re not treating you right, but we’re going to change that around quickly.
Pat, I’ve been a fan of yours for a long time. I’ve known you for a long time. You do one hell of a job, and you’re pretty popular with these people I see. [crosstalk 00:00:28]. Thank you, Pat. Well, maybe I’ll say a few words. It’s appropriate in light of everything that’s going on. When you look at all of the statistics, all of the numbers, New York’s finest, I love, and you’re the finest, they just don’t let you do the job [crosstalk 00:00:44]. They won’t let you do your job, that’s all it is.
So it’s my great honor to proudly accept something that Pat’s going to give me in a little while, so I’ll hold off on the word endorsement, but he’s going to give me an endorsement, I understand. And I have deeply and profoundly admired the brave men and women, as you know, of New York City’s finest, and I’ve admired you my whole life. My whole life I’ve watched you do a job like nobody else. Nobody else has done it. And truly, you’re the best of the best and I’m grateful. And I’m very happy that you’re here, and we’ll have a little fun for a little while, but first we’re going to talk a little business. We have to talk business because we have to straighten out our city. Our city’s a mess.
Every day, the courageous offices of NYPD put your lives on the line to protect the innocent and to put violent criminals behind bars. You protect people you’ve never met before. You know, I’ve heard that expression a long time ago, and it always means something to me. You’re protecting people with your lives, people that you’ve never met before, and you’ve done an incredible job.
And the world will never forget the New York police offices who ran into the smoke and flames of 9/11, I was there, many never to return. We salute the heroes of NYPD and we salute our law enforcement heroes all across the nation. I was responsible, along with a couple of people that were right in this audience, for getting you some very good and large payments so that we can take care of some of the people that were hurt so badly. Longterm hurt they call it, right? Longterm hurt, but we got it done and we got it signed. We got it signed and we’re taking of a lot of people.
And we want to thank our great firefighters also, right alongside of you, right? Our great firefighters.
As we gather today, our country is suffering from a radical far left movement. It’s not even to be believed when you see this, what they’re thinking. Where did these people come from? Where do they come from? That is trying to defame, demoralize, defund, dismantle, and dissolve our great police departments. It’s a left wing war on cops.
If Sleepy Joe Biden were to become precedent, he would immediately pass legislation to gut every single police department in America. You know that. And probably, she’s a step worse. She’s a step worse, Kamala. I was sort of hoping he was going to pick Pocahontas, but that [ inaudible 00:03:32]. She of Indian heritage number. Remember I said I have more Indian than her, I have more Indian than she does? And I went into it. I went into it at great length and I turned out to be right. I have none and I had more than she had. She’s another beauty.
Portland and Chicago are the left’s roadmap to America, and sadly, what’s happened over the last year in New York City. And it’s an incredible thing to look at, an incredible, incredible thing. And I just saw somebody here named Rudy Giuliani. Do you know Rudy Giuliani? Where’s Rudy? Is he around here? Get up here, Rudy. Get up. What are you doing down there, Mr. Mayor? This the greatest Mayor our city has ever had. Rudy, come on up here. Come on up. What a great… And he’s a man who is loyal and dedicated and tough. He got on television to defend me. He said things that even I wouldn’t say. He was brutal. He is incredible. He knew. He got it.
Joe Biden’s national police strategy will be modeled on the Bill DeBlasio, catastrophe. It’s a catastrophe. No one will be safe in Biden’s American, no city, no town, no suburb will be spared. And you see how I did something to help the suburbs of our country last week? A lot of people don’t want to even talk about it, but we did something that nobody else would have done. They’re ruining your suburbs. They want to ruin it. They want to destroy their housing values and your safety. But we ended it. We ended the program entirely. Somebody said, “Let’s amend it.” I said, “No, let’s end it.”
The Biden-Harris agenda, and I guess Harris could be bigger than you think in terms of the importances of vice president. They said there’s never been a more important pick, but in the end it’s not going to matter because we’re going to win. [crosstalk 00:05:34]. You know, honestly, we don’t have a choice. We have to win. This country will go to hell. The stock markets will crash. Your 401ks are going to be worthless. You’ll see. You’ll see what would happen, crime all over the place.
I mean, you take a look at Portland. You take a look at Chicago, and I can name plenty of other cities, but I don’t want to embarrass anybody. My agenda is anti-crime and pro-cop all the way and that’s what it’s got to be.
So in recent months, New York City has witnessed the horrors that result from putting extreme left politicians into power. DeBlasio has launched a crusade against, and he really has, he has launched a real crusade against the police like I don’t think anybody’s ever really seen, but there are cases that are just as bad. There are some cases, radical left, that may be even are worse.
The mobs have scrawled disgusting slogans such as cops must die. Think of this, cops must die and kill all cops. Okay? Who would even have thought 10 years ago that was possible? On the side of buildings, they put those terms. And they vandalized St. Patrick’s Cathedral, the beautiful St. Patrick’s Cathedral, with horrible, horrible statements, horrible phrases. And then of course that disgusting chant, “Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon,” right? Remember that?
And now, all of a sudden, it becomes mainstream. It becomes, “Oh, isn’t this wonderful?” They were talking about you. You know that, right? We just can’t forget it because we have to bring law and order back to our cities, back to our country, and we’re doing it. Wherever we go, we do it. But when you have the radical left running it, no good.
Rioters have rampaged through Manhattan and looted Fifth Avenue and an NYPD Sargent was left, as you know very well, in critical condition after being rundown with a car. A Molotov cocktail was thrown into a police vehicle in Brooklyn. And NYPD’s highest ranking uniform chief and other offices were beaten in broad daylight on the Brooklyn Bridge. And they’re not allowed to fight back. You’re not allowed to fight back. You fight back, you lose your pension, you lose your life. They put you in jail you fight back. No, you got to be able to fight back.
I mean, to me, one of the saddest, and I don’t want to embarrass anybody, but one of the saddest things, Rudy, that I’ve ever seen, Pat, was when they were dumping water on the heads of two of your fellow officers. And I wish they fought back. I promise nothing would have happened to them. Because who even knew that was water? It could have been plenty of other things. It probably was actually. But it could have been some very dangerous material, not water. And they didn’t fight back. The first time I’ve ever seen that. I wish they did. I wish they did. I wish I could have talked to them. I said, “Fight back. I swear you’ll be protected.”
This is the left’s vision for the future of the United States of America. If they win this election, November 3rd, got to get out, got to get everybody you know. You know, the Democrats have an advantage because they have certain people that automatically vote. And we’re going from New York. We’re going for New York [crosstalk 00:09:02]. Because we did well last time. You know, New York is not supposed to be Republican territory. It was Ronald Reagan. But a lot of the people left. A lot of the people that voted for Ronald Reagan left. That was the last time. And they voted for Ronald Reagan, but they left. They went on to other places. They got tired of being abused and high taxes and all of the other problems.
And we’re going to go and run and we’re going to run on law and order, and we’re going to run our lower taxes, and we’re going to run on doing something with salt. You know what the salt is? Remember Schumer? Schumer said, “I try and bring home things to my people in New York.” You know what he brought home? Salt. For those of you that don’t know, look it up. It’s not good.
But if they win this election, every city in America will be under siege. You know that. Because the police are good in Seattle and they’re good in all of these different places I talked about. They’re not being let do their job. Can’t do their job.
Their pro-crime agenda, the Biden-Harris group will also crush our economy because there is no prosperity in cities that are ruled by fear. And I even think the politicians are afraid. If you look at Portland, the Mayor is trying to say, “Oh, these are my friends.” And then he goes in there, they want to beat the hell out of him. And then the fake news doesn’t report that. They’ll show him standing there with the sound down so you don’t hear what they’re saying to the Mayor. Fortunately, he had five body guards when he went in, right? But it was very dangerous for him. And I don’t know if he’s doing this at a stupidity or out of fear. Because I think they’re afraid actually.
Yeah. It sounds like one my friends.
My administration has made clear that the Department of Justice will partner arm-in-arm with our police heroes. And we’re with you all the way and we’ll prosecute all federal violations to the fullest extent of the law. But you know, we have to be invited in, unless we do something very drastic, which is a big statement, but we have to be invited in. But you don’t need help. You guys don’t need help. You have the greatest police force in the world. You have the greatest in the world. All they have to do is tell your top people to do your job and you’re going to do it properly. You’re not going to do something in excess to what [inaudible 00:11:26], but they want to tell you to do your job and you’re not going to have any crime in New York. It’s going to go down like it did with Rudy Giuliani. It’s going to go down so fast.
That happened quickly, Rudy. That didn’t take too long.
Not at all.
That didn’t take too long. You, he looks good enough. Let’s draft Rudy. You better be careful, he’d win it. He’d win very easily. Because people want that back. They want it back. That’s why I think, I really am, I’m putting it into play. Most people would say, “Oh, spend your time in other places,” but I’m going to put it. We did very well. We did incredibly upstate, Long Island, all of the various, Staten Island was-
Incredibly upstate, Long Island, all of the various … Staten Island was great, right? Staten Island was great. By the way, Joe Rose is a disaster. I will tell you that. I hope they get him out of there. He’s a total lightweight in many ways. Joe Rose, get him out.
Get him out.
He turns out he’s another beauty. My administration will so increase funding for police so that we can hire more police offices nationwide. We’re increasing funding very substantially. And in many cases, they don’t want it. They want to put into a different group. I said, “What’s that group all about?” And it’s called socialism, and it doesn’t work. Never will work.
Boo.
By contrast, New York City voted to defund the police by $1 billion, if you can believe it, even after experiencing the bloodiest June in nearly 25 years. It’s dismantled an elite team of crime fighters, that crime fighting unit that your friends, there were incredible people. They were making us all safe. Nationwide, they were making us safe and we got to get them back. We got to bring them back. Hopefully, they don’t get a job for too much money. Tell them not to look too hard because we’re going to bring them back. We’ll get them back. They’re the best. [Rudy 00:13:17] started that. They’re the best. Joe Biden and Kamala, they always say Kamala, Kamala, Harris have a plan to spread this mayhem to every community in America.
Now, in all fairness to Joe, he doesn’t really know what’s happening. They say, “Joe, we’re going to spread it around. Oh, okay. Okay.” This guy doesn’t answer any questions. He gets up today. He made a statement. I just did an incredible deal with UAE. You saw that, right? Everyone’s shocked. Even the New York Times said it was incredible deal. Can you believe? The New York Times? I can’t even believe it. Thomas Friedman, they wrote an incredible editorial. It was a great deal. So we did this deal. Nobody else did it. In fact, we were at a huge deficit because of the horrible deal that Obama made with Iran. Gave them $150 billion, billion, not million. 150 million’s a lot. That would be too much also. 150 billion then gave them 1.8 billion in cash. I broke the deal. I terminated the deal, but we made a deal, UAE and Israel. And sleepy Joe got up and said he made the deal. I said, “Whoa.” Did anybody hear that? He actually took credit for making that deal.
Debate him.
For a change, I’m being praised all over the world for making that deal, and that’s just the beginning. I think they just said, “Say this Joe. Say that you made it.” It’s like it was Obama’s economy right? Before the plague, we had the greatest economy in history. Greatest economy anywhere in the world, let alone ours. And now we’re building it back up very rapidly. You see the numbers. But they were taking credit. They said, “Oh, this was Obama. Obama.” He said manufacturing would never come back. That was Obama. Manufacturing has come back big. In fact, even two days ago, they announced incredible numbers. When asked recently if he favors cutting police budget, Biden replied. “Yes, absolutely.” But I’m not sure honestly he knew what he was replying to so we’re not … “Yes, absolutely. What did I say? What was I referring to?” You could use that clip for a million different things right? Yes, absolutely. You never say that as a politician. You always finish out.
Biden has been described by police as and he described the police, you saw that, as the enemy. He said it’s the enemy. Kamala Harris applauded LA’s recent decision to slash its police budget, and LA really went to town on it, you saw that. Millions and millions of dollars off their budget. After the riots in Minneapolis, Kamala encouraged Americans to donate money to the so-called Minnesota Freedom Fund, which bailed out rapists, assaulters and murderers. They bailed them right out of jail. Biden’s staff donated to the same fund. We can’t lose this election. Okay?
[crosstalk 00:04:06].
We can’t loose.
Not going to happen.
We’re building a big wall. We’re building the wall. It’s up to almost … Look at her. She’s all excited about that. That’s-
Build the wall, build the wall-
Build the wall, build the wall, build the wall, build the wall-
Yeah, we’re building. It’s up to 280 miles. Will be up … That’ll be completed-
[inaudible 00:00:16:27].
You’re right. I like her. No, you’re right. And you know who like the wall? The Southern border, you know who like at the most? Hispanics, because they know the area. They know what comes in and they want to be safe. They want to keep their good jobs. They want to keep their beautiful houses. They’ve done well, but they know the area the best. We’re doing great with the Hispanics. As San Francisco district attorney, she chose not to seek the death penalty against a gang member who killed a San Francisco police officer going against the wishes of the officer’s wife, going against the wishes of the police. In his unity manifesto written with socialist … Bernie Sanders is another beauty, Bernie. Crazy Bernie. We’ve got names for all of them no? What’s better? Sleepy Joe or slow Joe? Tell me.
[crosstalk 00:05:19].
What is better?
[crosstalk 00:05:22].
I go back and forth.
[crosstalk 00:05:24].
I go back and-
[crosstalk 00:17:27].
Okay, let’s do it. Who likes Slow Joe?
Yay.
Who likes Sleepy Joe?
Yeah.
That’s what I thought. I got all these guys telling me, “Oh, you ought to do. We don’t like sleepy because it’s rude.” They said it’s rude. I said, “We’re talking about the president of the United States.” I can tell you one thing. Putin and Kim Jong Un and President Xi of China, they’re not sleepy. We’re never going to say sleepy or slow, and we can’t have slow, sleepy people dealing with them either because we were doing very well against all of them. All of them. And we’re have a good relationship now. Remember North Korea? We were going to go to war with North Korea. Obama would have been in a war. Millions of people could have been killed in that war. Where’s the war? Everybody said, “Trump will be in war in the first week.” Where’s the war? In fact, we’re bringing people out of the endless Wars. The Wars that where their doing your job. They’re policemen and that’s great, but they want to fight. They want to win. We didn’t let people win. Bring them back. We shouldn’t have been there in the first place. So we bring them back, and what we’re doing is bringing them back with great dignity.
It’s incredible what’s happened. We’ve totally rebuilt our armed forces, $2.5 trillion. We’ve given you hundreds of millions of dollars worth of equipment. Pat, you know that. Hundreds of millions of dollars worth of equipment came out of … It was collecting dust, right? It was army surplus stuff and all the different … It was beautiful stuff and Obama didn’t want you to have it. They said it made you look too strong, too tough. You look too military. So they said, “Let them get shot.” Much of it was protective equipment. You know that. I released it all. I gave it to all the police departments all across the country and I have had more thank yous for that. And someday, they’re going to have to explain why they didn’t want to do it. And this was sitting there. It was not going to be used. A lot of it was new, but it wasn’t going to be used. And I said, “Give it to our great police all over the country.” And we did and it’s been great.
And just to finish up, I call it the manifesto because Bernie Sanders, he was going to make an agreement and they were going to go a little bit further right. They didn’t. They went further left than Bernie was. So in the manifesto, Biden pledges to abolish cash bail. How about that? No cash bail. No bail, meaning that violent and dangerous criminals would simply be released after arrest. New York tried this insane policy and crime surged nearly 25% in New York City and now it’s up much, much higher than that. This is an old statistic. It’s up much higher than that. So nationwide, the Biden plan to abolish bail would release over 400,000 criminals on our streets.
So all I’m saying is this. We have the greatest police departments. We have great police. We have great forces. They have to be allowed to do their job. And I’ve seen Pat and I’ve seen you. You’re going to have a bad apple. You’re going to have somebody who makes a horrible mistake. You’re going to have somebody has a bad moment, but it may be just a bad apple. We’ve seen it. But that doesn’t mean we’re going to close up our police departments. And like in Minneapolis, tell them to run. Leave, leave. Did you ever see anything like that? Where they left? Where they left? We can’t ever let that happen. We sent in the National Guard five or six days later. We waited, we waited, we waited. Within one hour, the whole thing was … You never heard of anything. On these monuments and statues, you saw that? They were trying to rip them down. They ripped some down. I immediately signed an order that if you get caught ripping down a monument or a statue, you get 10 years in jail. 10 years.
And I don’t know about you, I haven’t seen too many statues being ripped down lately. They were going to have a march on Washington, Washington. They wanted to rip down statues. I said, “So wait a minute. You’re going to rip down statues, you’re going to go to jail for 10 years.” I signed it publicly. Very public. You got to let them know or otherwise, it’s not fair. They get 10 years, they didn’t know about it right? Wise guys. So we let them know you get 10 years in jail. I took an old law because they don’t do those laws today. Today, get that through the house. Tell Nancy Pelosi we’re going to give somebody 10 years. She’s terrible. Look at what’s happened to San Francisco. Look at the tents. Look at the homeless. That’s Nancy. She ought to go home and clean up her own city, but take a look.
But it’s 10 years in jail. They were going to have a big march on Washington. They were going to come down and knock down. They had them earmarked. And as soon as they announced that, nobody showed up. It was amazing. Big march, nobody showed up. They said, “No, we’re going to do it the following …” That was a Thursday night. “We’re going to do it the next night, Friday.” Nobody showed up except four people. They all got arrested because they were the four people that the media had on top of the statue of Andrew Jackson doing damage. Almost got it down. And I’ll say something. The Washington, the D.C. police were great because they had the ropes. You saw the ropes. They were ready to pull it down. They were all set and our guys said, “Stop it.” And those guys ran in and that thing was over. Those Washington, those D.C. police did a job. That wasn’t like you know. They did a job. So we’re going to give you back your stature. We’re going to give you back your status. I hate to say it, but it’s been taken away. We’re going to give you back the right to be New York’s finest, the finest of all time, the greatest of all time, and we’re going to win on November 3rd. And the people that didn’t love Trump, never Trumpers, a lot of them are saying, “I’m starting to like Trump a lot,” because they see what’s happening. And we’re going to give New York a real shot and I think we have one hell of a shot at doing it. I just said this morning, the New York Post, which has been great. The New York post had a cover story about that. They came and interviewed me at the Oval Office and they talked about law and order in the city. And I said, “I did very well, Republican wise. I did very well.” We did great, and I really believe that that solid core of people has to be real. First of all, they’re leaving. A lot of them are leaving, but they have to be discuss-
I mean first of all they are leaving a lot of them are leaving, but they have to be disgusted with what’s going on. So I said then and there and I said it today. I put it out today strongly, we’re going to go and give New York a real shot. I think we have a real chance of winning New York, but we’re going to give you so much of what you’re looking for. Because I know exactly it’s so easy you need leadership, you need money, you can’t defund. It has to go the other way. You need equipment.
But what do you need more than anything else is your dignity and respect. You need respect, you need your dignity back and this guy has taken your dignity away and your respect away. And I am telling you on November 3rd you’re going to be getting it back like you haven’t gotten it back before. Because this is really a referendum. So I want to thank you very much. And Pat, thank you very much. Fellas thank you.
USA, USA, USA. Mr. President, today it’s an honor for me to stand at this podium and be the voice for 24,000 New York city police officers, proud police officers that are here today chanting USA, chanting Trump for president and they mean it each and every time they say it. Mr. President, it’s obvious where you hold the NYPD in your heart. We heard the news this morning that you got some family news that your brother had fallen ill. And naturally we thought well, we may have to postpone this. The president may not be able to come. And then our phones rang and we were told that the president will visit his brother and then he will visit with you. That’s where he puts you. New York city police officers and family. That’s the type of president we have.
Mr. President what we all have in common here today is that we all have a police officers shield in our hip pocket. We all have friends and family that are here to support you. And more importantly, in this crowd is our family members too. The ones that worry what happens when their loved one takes that last step off the stoop and goes to work and they know they may not come back. And we know you understand that Mr. President, because you’re constantly always loud about the support for New York city police officers. Mr. President, this city you helped build, the borough where your father started in South Jamaica is sliding back. The borough in which you build so many skyscrapers was just recently looted. Our city is sliding back because the mantra, the false narrative that not only city hall, the second floor in the state house and those that want to become president are passing this false narrative that New York city police officers and law enforcement are evil.
How absurd is that? That they blame us for society’s ills? Well, let me tell you this Mr. President I know you know that. The most compassionate people on the face of the earth are New York city police officers. Mr. President, if you look at the crime numbers in New York city we’re sliding back where we’re at shootings. We’re at shooting levels back to 1993. That’s because of that narrative against the police officers, that’s where they’re handcuffing our members. That’s where they’re saying if you take a bad guy off the street that you will go to jail. Now that’s the upside down world. So what we can’t do is let that attitude spread beyond the city, beyond the state house and go to the white house Mr. President.
So we here today for a reason, a reason that you understand to support not only New York city police officers, but law enforcement across this country. And this is not new for you Mr. President, you do it always. See, the sign of a leader is someone that will stand at a podium like this and speak the truth and will say what needs to be said and not be afraid to do it.
Well, we are seeing leaders in our state that are following the crowd Mr. Mayor. Mr. President what they’re doing is not only following marches, they’re following riders. They’re trying to catch up and do whatever they can to make sure they’re happy. I often times wake up and say who were they listening to? They’re not listening to the folks in the neighborhoods that we patrol. They’re not listening to the folks that say we want police on our streets and we want to respect them. So today Mr. President, there’s two things that we’d like to do. We’d like to present you with a statue that means so much to New York city officers. This statue, we do not hand out lightly. This statue is very special to New York city police officers for what it represents. This is a police officer standing tall and proud with his hand on the shoulder of a child. Now that child represents not only a little boy, not only a little girl, but a crime victim, someone that needs our help, someone that was victimized. That’s what police officers do every day in this country and this city and this state. They stop, they put their hands, they give their comforting words, the compassionate words that helps everyone. Mr. President we know that you hold police offices in high esteem. So there’s not many of these that are given out, but we’re giving it to you today Mr. President. We hope that you can put this in a prominent spot and that people that can see it and realize that those that are in the mob that are tearing down what we do, our profession has a supporter in the oval office that understands what this stands for. Mr. President it’s my honor.
How does the oval office for that sound? Okay? Good?
Mr. President, I said we have two things to present to you and we presented a special statue. But we also have some practical work to do because there’s election that we’re in the midst of. So I’m here to say this number one, I have 36 years on this job, 21 as the president of this fine organization. I cannot remember when we’ve ever endorsed for the office of president of the United States until now. That’s how important this is. Mr. President we’re fighting for our lives out there. We don’t want this to spread to the rest of the country. We need your strong voice across the country to say we have the support of law enforcement across this country. Now, many times people say that a union like ours, law enforcement groups give endorsements, not in the New York city PBA sir. In the New York city PBA Mr. President you earn the endorsement and you’ve earned this endorsement. I’m proud to give it.
Well, I just want to thank you that was incredible. I assumed it was given out because I see a lot of things given out and they shouldn’t be given out. But a special man, you are just really special people. You really are. You’re very brave people. I will say this, you read a lot of negatives. They have a lot of fake media, fake news, false news, call it whatever you want, corrupt news. But you have no idea how much the people of this country love our police departments, our police, our law enforcement, our border patrols, our ICE people. ICE they go into the toughest situations. They take out MS13 by the thousands and then they get abused. But they’re not really abused, they’re loved by the people of this country. And New York’s great police force is something that I grew up with.
I used to go with my father in Brooklyn to a little, I shouldn’t tell you this, a little hamburger place for lunch. And we’d see these big cops come in and they were great. And everybody stood at attention when they walked in and we’re going to get that back. You’re respected just the same, but they don’t allow it to happen. We’re going to allow it to happen. You are great, great people. And remember this, you are loved by our country, loved by our country and respected by our country.
And all we have to do is let you do your job, right? Just let you do your job. Pat, I think it might be appropriate. So we really do. We have New York city’s greatest mayor of all time. He took over a city that I don’t know, was worse. Maybe better. I don’t know what I’m going to ask Rudy what’s the difference between that city and the city of today? Certainly it caught up very quickly for a long while it was a lot better, but when Rudy ran it, it was incredible. The crime statistics, the murder. I hate to use that word, murder. I don’t know if this place has ever heard that word murder. It’s not into the word of murder.
But when you look at the stats, I looked at them the other day it was incredible what he was able to do in a short period of time with only New York’s finest. Without New York’s finest he couldn’t have done it. He let them do the job and he had three very great commissioners. He keeps telling me three great commissioners. I always say, “Who is the best?” He doesn’t want to tell me maybe he’ll tell you. But I’ve asked him many times, “Who is the best Rudy I want to know who? Who is the best?” He’ll never tell me, but there’s always the best, right? There’s always somebody. But I just want to thank you. I want to thank Pat. I’d love to ask Rudy to say a few words.
But I just want to thank you. I want to thank Pat. I’d love to ask Rudy to say a few words and we love you all. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. It’s a beautiful thing to see.
Rudy.
Thank you.
[inaudible 00:36:21].
I know you since I was a little boy. My Uncle Willie, my Uncle, Bob, my Uncle Vincent, my Uncle Anthony were all New York City Police Officers. One was a Detective. One was a Sergeant. Then I had a fifth uncle, who was a firefighter, but I’m not going to mention that right now. I grew up with you and then I got to work with you as a prosecutor, and I get credit for bringing down crime more than any other mayor ever. Anywhere, but you did it. I didn’t do it. I know you did it. That’s why every time you were hurt, every time you were injured, I’d be the first one to show up at the hospital. Not because I’m a great guy, because it’s my duty to be there, because you got it done.
I hear people say, “Oh, we don’t need police officers to reduce crime.” Out of their f’ing mind’s out of their minds. Out of their minds. I went and acquired more police. We took over the Housing Police. We took over the Transit Police. We made them all one, because I needed to reassign them to the right places. We took police officers out of white neighborhoods that voted for me, who were really angry at me for doing it, and we put it into black neighborhoods where Al Sharpton would complain about us. But the people loved it and would ask me for more. People in Harlem asked me for more. Bedford-Stuyvesant and Fort Greene, all the places you know so well. You go to the people and the President is right and Pat is right. They want you. They respect you.
I have people of all races, black, white, Hispanic, come up to me now in the streets, and tell me, “Please, please tell someone we need more police. We love the police. Let them know it. Don’t don’t listen to these people on television. We love them.” Particularly, come from the black community, particularly. They know who you are. It’s just a bunch of, they’ve become really radicals who want to overthrow our way of life. That’s what they’re about. You’re a part of it. You’re in the way. You’re in the way of that. Being able to create a socialist government, to create a government where, well it’s going to be created because they get people to hate America. That’s why they burn statues. That’s why they burned flags. That’s why they kneel during the national anthem.
We don’t kneel.
Of course, we don’t kneel. What do we do during the national anthem? We stand up, right? What do we do? That’s what we teach our children.
[inaudible 00:00:38:56].
It’s all being done for a purpose though. It’s being done for a purpose. They want us to believe that our country was founded by an evil man, that our first president was an evil man. That the author of our liberty was an evil man, that the emancipator was an evil man, that the general who won the Civil War was an evil man, because they want to convince enough people, we’re a hateful country. They teach that in our schools now. 1000 schools have a curriculum, which says that America has never been able to overcome the horrible sin of slavery and that all Americans are responsible for it. Can you believe that? We’re teaching that to our children. They’re being forced-fed that in school, and then they get it from the media. It has to be you, the best representatives of the constitution, the law, fairness, decency, protection of people, have always been police offices because you do something that all the people who criticize you don’t do. You put your lives on the line every day to protect me and my family. I don’t do that and that’s why I honor you.
You made the right choice in this president. I was with him when he ran in 2016. I was with him for four straight months. He would campaign until 11 o’clock, 12 o’clock, one o’clock, two o’clock, three o’clock, four o’clock. All the kids would be asleep on the plane. He would be awake. No matter how late it was, when we’d get to the airport, everybody was exhausted. There’d a be about 30 cops that were there. Maybe the guys on the motorcycles, or couple of guys guarding the plane. Everybody wanted to rush on the plane and every other candidate I ever saw rushed on the plane. He never once rushed on the plane. No matter how far he had a walk, he went up to the uniform and he shook hands with every single one of them. He did it because it’s for real. He’s not a politician. He’s actually a real person. That’s why, he’s accomplished in three and a half years, more than any other president, I interviewed an African-American gentleman the other day. I have a tape. He said that this is the best president for the African-American community since Abraham Lincoln, nobody even close.
Four more years. Four more years.
He’s the best president for police officers.
Four more years. Four more years.Four more years. Four more years.
He just accomplished what nobody else was able to accomplish in the Middle East. Nobody has been able to bring a Gulf Arab state to say they’re going to recognize the state of Israel. No one has done that. Obama made it almost impossible to do it because he had an animosity toward Israel that was sick. He’s turned that all around. He’s turned around the reputation of our country in the world. He made it the greatest economy we’ve ever had. We got a terrible setback because of China, that owns Joe Biden. I have, I can prove that to you, but that’s another story. They own him. They own his son. They won his family. He doesn’t even have the room to negotiate with China. You’re cops. You know what I’m talking about, don’t you?
[inaudible 00:06:26].
Yeah.
[inaudible 00:06:28].
All that money for the kid, was for the kid. China’s going to give away $1.5 billion to that kid who can’t hold a job? I’m not going to say why. Some of you are probably detectives. You figure out, why did they give $1.5 billion to the Biden family when Joe Biden was negotiating for us, US? Oh, by the way, he lost in every negotiation, but the family made 1.5 billion. I don’t got to say anymore. You got it. I feel sorry for Joe. I feel sorry that he has the senility. I feel sorry for the country that he picked that horrible prosecutor. That woman is a bully. She’s a bully. Here’s what I mean by that. I know prosecutors like you know cops. She prosecuted little people and she wouldn’t prosecute big people.
All the politicians in San Francisco, all Willie Brown’s friends, they went free, but she went after 1500 marijuana smokers. Marijuana smokers, not people selling it, smokers. Then when she was asked if she smoked marijuana, she said, “ha, ha, ha, yeah.” Tell me this isn’t a horrible person. You put people in jail for something that you laugh about, but you put them in prison and take their liberty away because she wanted statistics, because she’s a bully. She can’t be that close to the … Oh my God. Thank you. I know what you guys can do and women. I know what you can do on the streets to protect us. I know what you can do politically too. Let’s get them elected. We need him right now more than he needs us. Thank you.
Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak. Does anyone else want to … So again, it’s an honor that you came. I just want to pay my respects to a really good guy that I love. It’s my brother, he’s very ill and he would not have … I mean, he just said, “Don’t even think about it.” I really appreciate what he said. He’s having a very tough time, but I really appreciate being with you today. He respected you as much as I do. He respected you, like everybody. We all respect you and we’re going to let you do your job. We’re going to let you do your job. That’s all we have to do. Again, thank you very much. It’s such an honor to be with you, to get the endorsement pad of this group of incredible men and women is mind-blowing. Really it is.
Thank you, very much.
Mind blowing and just, I’m going to leave you with this very simple phrase. I will never, ever let you down. I will never let you down. Okay? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you everybody, please. Thank you very much. It’s a great honor to be here and thank you, Dan. I’m thrilled to be in the great state of Ohio. You are very good to me, but I’ve been very good to you. I’ve been very good to you. We’ve been good to each other. With the incredible men and women of Whirlpool, the largest washing machine factory anywhere in the world. Every day, 20,000 gleaming new machines rolling off that beautiful assembly line. I just got to see it. And every single one is proudly inscribed with that glorious phrase, made in the USA. Remember? Made in the USA.
When I was campaigning, I said, “Let’s go. Made in the USA, put it on your machines, put it on everything we make.” I’m grateful to everyone at Whirlpool for welcoming us today, including Marc Bitzer, thank you. Jim Kepler and Sarah. Both of them. Thank you very much. Sarah, where’s Sarah? Thank you. Thank you very much. Sarah [Bovard 00:01:04].
Also, with us today is secretary of labor, Eugene Scalia, and a warrior. I’m sure you never heard of him. He’s a warrior. A great, great wrestling champion and a great guy. Jim Jordan. Jim, he is a warrior. Thanks Jim. And he’s tough. I’m not going to wrestle him ever. I promise.
And another warrior, great fellow who has been right at our side. He works with Jim and I so much and so hard. Bob Latta. Bob, thank you very much. Thank you Bob. Also Lieutenant Governor, Jon Husted, thank you, Jon. Thank you.
State senate president, Larry [Orpaff 00:01:58]. Larry, thank you very much. Thank you, Larry. Thank you. Clyde Mayor, Scott Black, and many other distinguished guests, great people. Great representatives. Thank you fellas. Thank you very much.
As we celebrate Whirlpool’s 109 year legacy of American manufacturing excellence, today I want to lay out my vision to bring millions and millions, more jobs and thousands more factories back to American shores where they belong. We’ve been doing it long and hard.
One of the reasons you’re successful today happens to be a meeting I had probably four years ago with a very good representative of your company saying what they were doing to you and how badly you were being treated by other countries. And you know what I did. And here we are today, the most successful plant.
And we’ve done this in a lot of places. The duty of a president is to put this nation’s own citizens first. That’s why my administration swears by two simple, but crucial rules, buy American and hire American
And no one knows better than the workers of Whirlpool, the high cost of past administrations’ economic blunders and surrender. On the question of foreign trade, previous leaders were guided by a shameful policy of capitulation, submission and retreat.
For decades, you watched as politicians let foreign nations steal our jobs, loot our factories, and plunder the crown jewels of the US economy. And the word plunder is capitalized. Washington stood idly by as other countries engaged in unfair trade practices such as massive subsidies, currency manipulation, and in the case of your industry and your company, the wholesale dumping of foreign made product sold below cost for the sole purpose of driving you out of business so they could give us product at double, triple, and quadruple the price. But we didn’t let that happen, did we?
For eight years, Whirlpool begged the Obama-Biden administration who did nothing to protect American workers from the flagrant dumping of foreign washers, dryers into America. But your cries for help fell on deaf ears. You didn’t see any action. They didn’t act, they didn’t care, and they never will.
For eight long years under Obama-Biden administration, American factory workers received nothing but broken promises and brazen sellouts and lost jobs. The last administration tied America up in one globalist debacle after another, they catered to the special interests while allowing foreign nations to siphon off our wealth, our dignity, our dreams, our money. The suffering of our workers was met with nothing but cruel betrayal and callous indifference.
In 2013, the US International Trade Commission found your competitors from Korea and other countries guilty of dumping washers into the US market and ordered them to pay anti-dumping duties as high as 79%. But rather than pay these very high tariffs, LG and Samsung relocated production to another country, a country called China. Have you ever heard of it? And the last administration did nothing as they kept on dumping washers into the US market with impunity.
The Obama-Biden administration was laughed at. They were a joke, and they were perfectly happy to let China win, your jobs disappear and your factory to close. And you know what it was like, I came through today and everybody was out there, tremendous crowds waving and cheering. I said, “I must’ve done it right.” Because you had people that were really, really something.
Because four or five years ago, this place was a disaster. In 2017, Whirlpool one relief from the ITC once again, once more, your foreign competitors moved their factories to prevent a level playing field and to avoid liability, shifting production to Thailand and to Vietnam, to places that I like their leaders very much. They’re very nice to us. Do they take advantage of the United States, but not so much anymore.
But this time there was one big difference. Instead of an administration that sold out American workers and sold your company out, and couldn’t have cared less for you, you finally had a president who stood up for the American worker on January 23rd, 2018 at my desk in the oval office, I proudly signed the order to impose a 50% tariff on all foreign-made washing machines.
As a result, Whirlpool’s nine factories across the United States were soon thriving like never before. Investing in new products, new infrastructure and hundreds of new American jobs, and I just took a tour, and I actually wanted a couple of those machines for myself, but I just didn’t know it was going to be appropriate to ask. But they are beautiful. That includes thousands of new jobs across the Ohio supply chain from right here in Clyde to Findlay, Ottawa, Greenville and Marian. All of them.
Your company became a shining example from really a company that was down and out, it became a shining example of what tough trade policies and smart tariffs can bring to jobs and prosperity to communities like this one all over Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and plenty of other states. They’re all doing well. They were doing great, then the plague came in, and now they’re doing great again.
We closed it up, we saved millions of lives, but now we’re opening and it looks like I was right about the V, because you’re seeing the kind of numbers that are coming in, and they’re coming in strong. Should have never happened. Should have never happened. China should have never let it happen.
In defending your jobs here at Whirlpool, I was doing exactly what I promised in June, 2016. As a candidate for president, I stood before an audience of hardworking patriots at a metals processing facility outside of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to outline my plan for a new America first trade policy. And it was even a better job than I told you. I’m one politician that says I’m going to do this, and then we do better. We produced more than I promised. And by the way, the wall is being built, it’s going to be finished very soon.
In my speech, I warned that our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization, moving our jobs, our wealth, and our factories overseas. I explained that globalization… These are the globalists. I’m not liking globalists too much, but they don’t like me too much either.
Globalization has made the financial elites who donate to politicians very wealthy, but it’s left millions and millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and headache, and our towns and cities with empty factories and plants. Four years later, we’ve made extraordinary progress in reversing the dangerous tide of globalism. Over a period of four to five years, this took place. Think of it. Four to five years. What we’ve done is a miracle, and now it’s getting even better because we’ve taken additional steps. And you know when you do these steps, you have to go through statutory procedures. It’s not like, boom! I’m going to just sign it.
It has to go out for 90 days of review, then 120 days of review, then more, and we did it as quick as we can. We’re doing it right now with the FDA. We’re getting vaccines approved in days that nobody thought possible. It would take years and years and we’re doing it in months. We’re doing very well.
Under my administration, we’re fighting for main street, not Wall Street. We’ve rejected globalism and embraced patriotism. In my speech in Pittsburgh, in June of 2016, I made seven big promises to American workers. Many politicians before me promised change on the campaign trail, only to back down in the face of corporate and international pressure.
Like Jerusalem, they all promised Jerusalem, didn’t they? For years and years. I did it. They didn’t do it. They didn’t do it. I did it. Move the embassy to Jerusalem, making Jerusalem the capital of Israel. They all talked about it. They talked and talked, and talked, and then they got into office and they didn’t do it.
And I understand why, the pressure was enormous on me too. I just didn’t take the phone calls. That’s true. Leaders would call up from other countries. I said, “Know what they’re calling about. I’ll call them back in a few days.” Then I just signed all the papers. Got it done. And then I called them back.
They said, “I was calling about Israel and Jerusalem, but you’ve already done it.” I said, “That’s right.” And they said, “Oh, okay.” I said, “Hey, I wish you got me a little bit earlier.” But I didn’t back down from my promises. And I’ve kept every single one.
First I promised to withdraw the United States from the last administration’s disastrous assault on US workers. The Trans-Pacific partnership would have been a disaster. Would’ve been a disaster, especially for the automobile industry. We would have put it out of business. By first week in office, I kept that promise and canceled that job killing catastrophe.
Second, I pledged to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to defend American jobs, and I did with Bob Lighthizer and all of his people, they’ve been fantastic.
Third, I said I would use every legal tool at my disposal to fight back against unfair trade, and I did, and I found some that nobody even knew about. Some of them were very old, they had a lot of dust on them. Hadn’t been used for decades and decades, but I found them. Things you could never get passed today.
Fourth, I promised to label China a currency manipulator, and I did. Fifth, I said we would bring trade cases against China to crack down on its economic aggression. Sixth, I committed to impose tariffs on goods to protect American jobs and stop China, and many other countries’ abuses under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, and section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. As your president, I have kept every single one of these pledges to the American people, and to the American worker without exception. Every one has been done. Seventh, one of my biggest promises in that speech was to replace the disaster known as NAFTA. One of the worst trade deals ever made by any country, let alone ours. Ohio lost almost 40% of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed. Half of all of the auto making jobs across the state were wiped out. Earlier this year, I finally ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new USMCA agreement. That’s United States-
..signed the brand new USMCA agreement. That’s United States and Mexico and Canada. And all of those bad things that you had to suffer with, you’re not suffering anymore, because now people and companies have an incentive to stay. They’re not going to be leaving so fast.
That was the biggest point I made. I want to make sure that these companies aren’t leaving, and the managers walk up and they say, “I’m sorry, our company’s leaving, going to Mexico, or Canada.” But going primarily in that case to Mexico, Canada takes advantage of us with dairy, unbelievable advantage, but not anymore. But Mexico took a lot of jobs. And I said, “I don’t want companies moving. And if they do move, remember you’ve heard it. If they do move, when they make that product, they’ve got to pay a big price to sell it back into our country.” So they have no more incentive to move.
The USMCA contains powerful new protections for American manufacturers, automakers, farmers, dairy producers, and workers, all across Ohio and all of our States. Those were key promises I made to American workers in 2016. I kept every single one of them. The fake news media back there, they hate to report this. Why do they hate it? Because they’re fake.
Today to define our path forward, I’m making our incredible workers, six more promises that I will keep over the next four years. And I’m very proud to make them at your plant, and in the state of Ohio. First and foremost, we will defeat the China virus. We’re working very, very hard. We call it the China virus. We call it the invisible enemy. We call it many different names. It’s got many different names, but it’s bad. And we’ve made tremendous strides. We’re attacking the virus from every angle, and through this aggressive strategy, we will win the war and it will happen sooner than people think. We’re developing a bounty of therapies, such as Remdesivir, Dexamethasone, antibody treatments. The antibody treatments are really working out well, really well, and many more that have allowed us to reduce mortality by 85% since April. Under operation warp speed, two vaccines are already in the final stage of clinical trials and we’ll have a vaccine very soon, I hope long before the end of the year.
We’ve dramatically increased our domestic production of personal protective equipment, such as N95, respirators, gowns and gloves. We’ve got factories now all over the United States making these products. And we’ve developed the most advanced testing system on earth to produce our most… And this is what we have to do. We have to produce not only cleanliness and perfection in every way, but we have to protect our most vulnerable citizens against this horrible virus. And that’s generally speaking the elderly, especially the elderly with problems of the heart, problems with the heart, and diabetes in particular, those two are a basic disaster. Our strategy shelters those at highest risk while allowing those at lower risk to get safely back to work and to school.
Instead of a never ending blanket lockdown causing severe longterm public health consequences, we’ve targeted and looked at data driven approaches, and that’s what we’re doing again, when you close down, and we had to do it initially because it came and hit us big, hard, and nobody knew what it was and we saved millions of lives, but today you just pinpoint it. We know what to do, and we know who to protect. As an example, very young children are incredibly powerful. They’re much stronger than all of us when it comes to the immune system. It’s an incredible thing to see, but we know who to protect and we know what to do. And let me tell you, lockdowns have big consequences in terms of drugs, in terms of family, in terms of depression and suicide, in terms of so many other problems that are caused. And not good for the kids, and they don’t learn the same at a computer as they do when they’re in a classroom. So there are big, big problems with lockdowns.
But we cannot defeat the virus by fighting against each other, just can’t. And there are a lot of different theories and a lot of different ways, but if you look at some of the results, you’ll see some of the states, governor run… some of the states that are open and run very smart are doing very well, and in fact, better than strong lockdown states. Now is the time to come together as Americans and to unite against the plague inflicted upon us by China. Together we will prevail.
My second promise to you is this, we will arise from the current adversity of this horrible invisible enemy, and we will be more prosperous and resilient than ever before. We’ve done things that we never knew we could do. We’re building factories now. We’re building plants. You’ll see what’s going to be happening with the job numbers very soon. We had two of the best months ever in the history of our country. And we’re going to have many, many very, very successful years, unless somebody comes and destroys it by doubling, tripling, and quadrupling your taxes. And quadrupling something else called regulations. It will be ended. It will be depression time.
One of the key lessons we’ve learned in this battle against the China virus is that the mighty American economy has a fantastic ability to adapt and repurpose its factories. Today using the Defense Production Act, which we’ve used often. Remember they’d always say, “Oh, use the Defense Production Act”. We’ve used it a lot, more than some companies would like to know. We’re engaged in the most rapid industrial mobilization by far since World War II.
Over the last six months, we’ve witnessed one manufacturing miracle after another. We’ve seen General Motors repurpose an auto parts facility In Kokomo, Indiana. Great state. And thereby stand up a ventilator. We have a ventilator factory literally in a matter of days, and we’re now producing thousands and thousands of ventilators a week. General Motors has now built and delivered more than 20,000 ventilators. By next week, our strategic national stockpile will be equipped to deploy more than 100,000 ventilators. They’re very expensive to build. They’re very complex. Very, very complex machines and they’re big. And I said that we are now supplying ventilators to many countries of the world. Everybody in our country has it. Not one person… And we had no ventilators. Who knew about ventilators? We had very few. But not one person… Think of this, who needed a ventilator didn’t get it. Every person that needed a ventilator got it. Who would have thought that was possible? And you remember at the very beginning, when you first heard about this whole horrible situation with the China virus, ventilators, they weren’t around, and now we make them by the thousands.
Working with GM and almost a dozen other companies, great companies, my administration has turned America into the ventilator king of the world. Ventilator king. Make them good, and we make them great. They’re very good, highest quality. We’re now exporting ventilators to friends and allies. And they’re really thankful they’re calling, “Can I have ventilators for our country, sir?” ” How many do you need?” “Could you send a thousand?” I said, “That’s a lot. The answer is yes.” What we’re doing is incredible. We’re helping other… We’re doing more goodwill with ventilators, because other things you can make, gowns and swabs and things you can make. We’re making them too, but ventilators are tough.
Ventilators are just one part of our historic manufacturing ramp up. Within seven days of New York officials asking for assistance last spring, we helped ship a million yards of fabric from North Carolina to New York city for masks and gowns. We’re making them all over the place. A great company, Honeywell, has opened up and N95 respirator factories in Rhode Island and Arizona in record time. And they’re now churning out tens of millions of masks for our strategic national stockpile. These include manufacturing achievements, and these are incredible. They’ll be the foundation of an even brighter future for American industry. What we’ve been able to do in a short period of time is frankly incredible. I’m not talking about me. I’m talking about the people out there. What they’ve done is incredible. Including the military and some of the generals and admirals, the job they’ve done.
My third promise is to build on these gains, to turn America into the premier medical manufacturer, pharmacy, and drug store of the world. As we’ve seen in this pandemic, the United States must produce essential equipment, supplies, and pharmaceuticals for ourselves. We cannot rely on China and other nations across the globe that could one day deny us products in a time of need. We can’t do it. We can’t do it. We have to be smart.
And speaking of pharmaceuticals, we instituted four moves, rebates, favored nations, and other things. Buying from other nations where they have the product, the same exact pill, identical, made in the same factory, for just a small fraction of the cost. We buy from other countries, as opposed to buying through this ridiculous quagmire of political scam that we’ve been going through for many years. And what I’ve done in terms of favored nations if, as an example, Germany has a pill for 25 cents and we have a pill for $2, we institute favored nations of the drug company. We get the pill for the same amount as the lowest pill, anywhere in the world. Anywhere in the world. That could drop your price of pharmaceuticals, of drugs, prescription drugs. Could drop your price 50, 60, 70%. Maybe more than that. This is something.
Now I have to tell you, I have never seen so many bad commercials about me as in the last three days since I did this. So when you remember that, when you see this horrible commercial, that I’m a socialist… I was called the socialist for the first time in my entire life. Actually, what I am doing is I’m using socialist countries who are buying our product for far less than we’re allowed to. I’m saying, “Well, if you’re going to sell it to this country, might be socialist, for a lower price, then we’re going to get that same price.” But I have been called everything in the book. And I say, I said the other day, “Whenever you see a drug company advertising that Donald Trump’s a bad guy, remember your drug prices must be coming down very big.” So please remember that.
Please remember that because I don’t want to get all those negative votes and then Biden wins and the first month, he’ll say “I dropped drug prices 78%,” and he won’t even know what the hell he’s saying. I don’t want to be watching that from some beautiful resort someplace in the world… Oh, I had such a beautiful life before I did this, but that’s okay because we’re doing a great job. And it makes me very happy to see people being properly represented for a change.
But during the course of the next four years, we will bring our pharmaceutical and medical supply chains home. We’re going to bring them home where they belong, and we’ll end reliance on China, just like we did with the washers and dryers, just like we did with many other things. We’ll be making our product here safely, beautifully and inexpensively. We’re reasserting American economic independence, and I’ve been doing that from the first day I came into office.
To this end, a short time ago, I signed the new executive order to ensure that when it comes to essential medicines, we buy American. The executive order will require that US government agencies purchase all essential medicines that we need from American sources. The executive order will also sweep away unnecessary regulatory barriers to domestic pharmaceutical production, and support advanced manufacturing processes that will keep our drug prices low and allow American companies to compete on the world’s stage. We’ll be able to compete on the world stage, but we’re now going to have the lowest prices as opposed to by far the highest prices. I have people that I know that go to Canada. They go to Canada to buy drugs, to buy prescription drugs. They go there because the price is so much lower than the United States. And yet it’s made by the same company, often in the same plant. It’s a disgrace.
And the politicians allowed this to happen for many, many decades. You have people called middlemen. I don’t know who the middlemen are. I don’t know. They never say middle women. So they’re politically not correct. But I’ve heard the term middlemen for a long time, they are so wealthy. They are so wealthy. Nobody has any idea who the hell they are, what they do. They make more money than the drug companies. In all fairness, at least a drug companies have to produce a product and it has to be a good product, but the middlemen. Well, the rebate.
To be a good product, but the middlemen. Well the rebate that I’m doing cuts out the middleman and reduces costs and the money goes back to the people purchasing the drugs. So I have a lot of enemies out there. This may be the last time you’ll see me for a while. A lot of very, very rich enemies but they are not happy with what I’m doing but I figure we have one chance to do it and no other president’s going to do what I do. No other president would do a favored nations, a rebate, a buy from other nations at much less cost, nobody, and there are a lot of unhappy people and they’re very rich people and they’re very unhappy.
Here’s my fourth promise to American workers. Beyond our medical supply chain, so over the next four years, we will launch our millions of new manufacturing jobs across many other critical sectors that are vital to our national security and prosperity, from electronics to machine tools to shipping, aerospace, autos, and of course to iron and to steel and we will never forget your washers and your dryers. During eight years of the last administration … And by the way I have to just tell you this little story. A couple of little stories if you don’t mind. Do you mind?
No.
Because that’s better than the other stuff, right? No, I was with somebody and they said, “You know for a dishwasher, we don’t have enough water, sir.” I think a lot of the people in the audience would understand what I’m saying. They don’t have enough water because they put restrictors on, so you don’t have any water and I said, “What is that? What is that?” In most states, outside of desert areas we have so much water we don’t know what to do with it. A lot of states. Your state does pretty well with water. So they have plenty of water, so I passed a regulation, I signed a regulation that gave the dishwashers much more water and I was asking today, and that by the way includes your washers. You don’t need too much water in your dryers but it includes your washers and I was just saying to your brilliant people that are doing such a good job running your company, I said, “How much impact does that have?” They said, “Unbelievable. It’s been unbelievable.” Because I had people saying they’d wash their dishes and they’d press their button five times, so in the end they’re probably wasting more water than if they did it once.
So you do notice, the people that make the machines, you know what I’m talking about. We now have the water that you need instead of stupid where you have much less water than you need and you just keep going over and over again. I had people say they’d press the button five times. They didn’t have enough water, and the same thing with sinks, toilets and showers. You go into a new home, you turn on the faucet, no water comes out. You turn on the shower, if you’re like me you can’t wash your beautiful hair properly. You waste 20 minutes longer, please come out, the water. It drips … You know what I’m talking about, they put restrictors on. I got rid of that, I signed it out. That’s common sense. So now when you actually go into a new home and pay a lot of money, you turn on a faucet and water actually comes out. Isn’t that nice? That was a regulation that was put in by a lot of people that don’t understand life. Because you end up using the same amount of water, you just let it run three times longer. It’s crazy.
One other thing I did, remember the old light bulb? The old light bulb was so great and they put it out of business. It was much cheaper and it had much better light and you’re all good-looking people but you look better under the old light bulb than that horrible new light bulb. It cost you a fraction of the cost. Didn’t last as long but that’s okay, but it cost you a fraction. I re-instituted and opened it up so they can sell both, they can sell the new one if you want it and they can sell the old one. The old one’s doing amazing business, amazing business. You know the new one is considered hazardous waste. When you lose it, you’re supposed to take it down to a dump, a specified dump. How many people are going to do that with a light bulb? “Hey you know, we lost this light bulb. Let’s travel 28 miles outside of the city to get rid of it.” It’s hazardous waste. So I put the old bulb back in and you can use the new one, you can use anything I guess, it’s competition but I particularly like it because I don’t look so orange so it’s very nice. Very nice. I don’t want to look, I don’t like that look, never liked it, but it’s a tremendous thing and it’s having tremendous success. So they’ll scoff and say, “Oh, who cares about that?” Very big stuff. These are big things. A lot of people have come up, “Thank you sir. They had sinks that didn’t give water. They had showers that didn’t give water,” the whole thing and it’s been a great thing, it’s been very popular, and we might as well tell you about it because people don’t talk about it but these are things that no other president would be doing, no other president frankly would be even thinking about.
During eight years of the last administration, America lost 10,000 factories and nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs. Think of that. In contrast my administration added over a half a million manufacturing jobs, it was up to actually 701,000 jobs before the plague came in and if you remember, President Obama, you need a magic wand. No you don’t, we need manufacturing jobs. He said you won’t have any more manufacturing jobs, you need a magic wand. He was wrong about that also. My fifth promise to American workers is to bring back American jobs and factories using every tool at my disposal including tariffs, I love properly put on tariffs because they bring unfair competitors from foreign countries to do whatever you want them to do. Countervailing duties and new trade deals based on the principle of fairness and reciprocity, and I’ll be signing something very important. Watch over the next week, I think you’ll be very proud of your president. I’m going to be signing something that’s very important over the next probably week and it will have a tremendous impact on fairness and trade.
As part of this commitment earlier today, I signed a proclamation that defends American industry by reimposing aluminum tariffs on Canada. Canada was taking advantage of us as usual and I signed it and it imposes because the aluminum business was being decimated by Canada, very unfair to our jobs and our great aluminum workers. Several months ago my administration agreed to lift those tariffs in return for a promise from the Canadian government that its aluminum industry would not flood our country with exports and kill all our aluminum jobs which is exactly what they did. Canadian aluminum producers have broken that commitment and the U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer has advised me that this step to reimpose tariffs is absolutely necessary to defend our aluminum industry. To be a strong nation, America must be a manufacturing nation and not be led by a bunch of fools. That means protecting our national industrial base. We have to protect our great companies and our great workers. My sixth and final promise today is to forever uphold the commitment I made from the beginning. I will always put American workers first, always. They’ll always be first place.
I don’t know if you’re union or non-union, doesn’t matter to me, but I did one hell of a good job for the unions. You know all the union heads are against me but all the workers are for me so something’s right. The workers are for me, they’re usually the union heads that wined and dined in Washington pretty good by the Democrats. As part of this commitment on Monday I signed an executive order to prevent government agencies like the Tennessee Valley Authority from replacing American workers with cheap foreign labor. There’s a very big utility run by a man that gets $8 million a year. Would anybody in this room like that job? $8 million? $8 million a year, right? Highest paid … He really doesn’t work for me, I wouldn’t pay $8 million. If you paid him … The president gets $400,000.00, $450,000.00. I give up my salary, nobody ever says that, I might as well every once in a while say it. I believe I’m the only president to do that and I’m saying that’s not too smart, but the Tennessee Valley Authority pays $8 million a year to the head and after the Authority laid off 20% of its American technology workforce and forced them to train their foreign replacements this week, I told the chairman of the board, “You’re fired.”
The firings will continue unless the layoffs are reversed and the American workers are rehired and by the way as I was leaving for the great state of Ohio, did you ever watch Biden? Where he’s always saying the wrong state. It’s great to be in Florida, Florida. No it’s Ohio. I’ve never seen a guy, I haven’t done that one yet. That’s a disaster. I always say, Jim Jordan, if you do that, it’s over. You can be Winston Churchill, [inaudible 00:39:42] walk off the stage, but he does it all the time. Nobody calls him for it. “I love the state of Iowa.” “Sir, sir, it’s Idaho. It’s Idaho.” The worst is when he’s in like Indiana and he says it’s great to be with the people of Florida and you have palm trees all over the place. But he does it all the time. There’s something going on.
Over the last four years, we’ve made extraordinary strides and over the next four years together we will turn the United States into the unrivaled manufacturing superpower of the world. We’ve been through a lot together. They’ve done everything possible to get in my way, they’ve treated us very unfairly, disgracefully, with what they’ve done to us and despite what they’ve done, no administration in the history of this country has done more in the first three and a half years than we have. Whether it’s rebuilding our military, all made in the USA, whether it’s the biggest tax cuts in history, whether it’s the biggest regulation cuts in history, ANWR in Alaska, the largest field perhaps in the world that Ronald Reagan going back even before Ronald Reagan, no president could get it approved, I got it approved and now it’s potentially one of the greatest sites in the world, should be the greatest site in the world.
So many different things we’ve done, we’ve done so much. What we’ve done for our vets and you’re a big vet state, Ohio loves its vets and what we’ve done for our vets. Choice and accountability. We’ve got two things they’ve been trying for almost 50 years, choice, veterans’ choice. How about that? We got that for you, so if you have to wait in line for two days or two weeks or two months and they had to wait two months sometimes, if they had to wait in line, they don’t anymore. They go outside, they get a private doctor, we approve it, we pay the bill and we take care of our vets like they’re supposed to be taken care of. Just got a 91% approval rating. VA just got a 91% approval rating, highest ever. The highest it’s ever had, and accountability.
We have people that were so scornful, they had hatred for our vets, they were treating our vets badly, our vets have to be treated great, but you couldn’t fire them. They could be sadistic, they could be thieves, you couldn’t fire them because the civil service unions, et cetera. Couldn’t fire them, and I got the accountability, VA accountability. Now you look at them, they don’t do a good job for our vets, you say, “Jim, you’re fired. Boom. Get out.” That’s the story. We actually terminated over 8,000 people that were not treating our vets well and they were for a long time. It sounds a little bit cold but the truth is they got to treat our vets well, right? So they have to do it, but we got accountability and we got VA choice but to achieve the vision that we’ve been talking about for so long, we must finish the job and drain the Washington swamp once and for all and we’re doing it.
For years left wing politicians smiled and looked at American workers right in the eye and took advantage of them and lied to them. They took your endorsements, they took your money and they took your votes and they did nothing. Then they turned around and inflicted one corrupt betrayal of the American middle class after another, whether it was NAFTA, TPP, the horrible Korea deal, the ridiculous Paris Climate Accord, how is it working out for Paris, not so good, and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization which is probably the worst of all the deals if you want to know the truth. That was where China signed that and they went up like a rocket ship and they violated the rules like nobody’s ever violated them before. In fact they’re considered a developing nation and because they’re a developing nation, they have advantages. Well we didn’t accept that, but for years they accepted that. By the way, Joe Biden supported every single one of those horrible disastrous sellouts. Under this administration, those days have been over and we’re not going back. We’re respected again as a country. We’re respected again. You may not feel it, although I think you do. You may not see it, you don’t read about it from the fake news but this country is respected again. We don’t let people take advantage of us, including our allies who took tremendous advantage of. Tremendous.
Our allies took tremendous advantage of us both militarily where they don’t pay their bills. We protect them, they don’t pay. Like Germany, we’re reducing the force, they don’t pay, they’re delinquent. I say it all the time, they’re delinquent, they got to pay. We protect Germany from Russia and yet Germany’s paying billions of dollars a year, billions and billions to Russia for energy. So I say what’s that all about? So we protect and they pay money and we protect. So we don’t stand for things like that but we have many other things. I could stand up here all day long and tell you things that you wouldn’t even believe
… the things I could stand up here all day long and tell you things that you wouldn’t even believe. To fully restore American prosperity, we must stop the radical left-wing movement that would destroy our country. They want to impose $3 trillion of new taxes on American families. They want to ban fracking, which will demolish your state, it will demolish Ohio oil and gas jobs. They want to rejoin the disastrous Paris climate accord, where you’ll pay billions and billions of dollars for the privilege of getting ripped off by other countries. And inflict a socialist takeover of the US economy known as the horrendous Green New Deal, was conceived by a young woman, AOC plus 3, I say, AOC, that’s a real beauty, isn’t it? She knows as much about the environment… Do we have any young children here? As that young child over there, I think he knows more. And she certainly knows nothing about the economy. And if they ever had their chance, you would find that out, and it wouldn’t take very long. Venezuela, was a very wealthy country 20 years ago, one of the wealthiest. Per capita, one of the wealthiest.
Tremendous oil reserves, everything. Now, they don’t have food, they don’t have water, they don’t have medicine, they don’t have anything. Same thing could happen, same… We’re similar ideology. They also want to throw open American borders, give free taxpayer funded healthcare to illegal aliens, defund police, abolish ICE, abolish borders, no more borders, and abolish basically the American Dream, this is Joe Biden. And does anybody really think he’s strong enough to stand up to these ruthless vicious people? You look at Portland, you look at what’s going on in Seattle, these are the people that you’re dealing with. If I didn’t send in the troops, if I didn’t send in the great people from Homeland Security, you’d have courthouses and post offices and everything else burned down, blown up. And we may send in something else, because you know what? They’ve been riding now for 70 days and the mayor thinks it’s just wonderful and the governor has no idea what she’s doing, I’ve never seen people like this.
Remember in Seattle, where they took over a big chunk of the City of Seattle, and the mayor said, “It’s going to be a summer of love.” And I said, “She’s just kidding, right? Isn’t she?” She wasn’t kidding. But we were all set to send in the troops, send in the people that we were going to send in, and what happened is amazing. We told them, and all of a sudden the police went out and they cleaned it up. But that place would still be occupied if we didn’t get involved. Same thing with Minneapolis. Minneapolis was a disaster. After five or six days, they were going to lose that whole city. We sent in the National Guard, they took care of things in about one hour. Remember the scene of them walking down the street, firing the tear gas? Now you’re not even allowed, if you’re looking at the other side, you’re not allowed to use tear gas or pepper spray. You can’t use any of that stuff.
They can use Molotov cocktails and horrible things on you, but you’re not allowed to do anything. So, the police didn’t want to have anything to do with the convention in a great State, Wisconsin, Milwaukee, for the Democrats. You couldn’t use tear gas, you couldn’t use pepper spray, you couldn’t use anything, think of how ridiculous this is. And you won’t be able to use your guns because they’re going to end your Second Amendment as sure as you’re sitting there. But the proud people of Ohio, will not let that happen. Together we will preserve, protect, and defend, our American way of life. As long as I am President… Thank you. As long as I am President of the United States, I will fight for you with every ounce of energy and strength that I have. I will be your voice, I will defend your jobs, I will stand up to the foreign trade cheaters and violators that hate our country, I will never let you down, I will have your back 100%.
For more than a century, the workers of this company have continued the proud tradition of American greatness embodied by your legendary founder, Louis Upton. It’s a heritage grounded in the values of hard work and determination, innovation and excellence, faith and family, loyalty and patriotism, passed down from one generation to the next, you have an incredible heritage. These are the values that have defined this company and defined our country from the very beginning. And they are the values that will define our future, that will ensure our success, and that will allow America to thrive and win for many generations to come. There is nobody that can defeat us, nobody. Now, I’d like to take just a moment to introduce a few of the Whirlpool men and women whose jobs I had the honor of taking decisive action to protect and to save. Carrie Wallace is an operations analyst whose family has 100 years of history at this very plant. Carrie, please come forward and say a few words, please. Thank you, Carrie.
Good afternoon. Manufacturing is the heartbeat of this area. Whirlpool has an enormous impact on the State of Ohio economically. My family has probably worked in these walls for four generations, like Mr. President said, for, combined, over a hundred years. I had the opportunity to get some advice from my mother, advice that was passed down from my grandfather, which I was actually just able to pass down to my nephew, there is not another company that would provide financial security and career opportunities in this area like Whirlpool. It’s true, the opportunities here are endless for us. Whirlpool has rewarded me with a completely new family also, I work with 3,500 proud individuals. Together, we build American made quality products here in Clyde, we bleed Whirlpool glue. I’m grateful for the support that we received in 2018 from the president, that support gives us the ability to compete and deliver in the market place now and for many generations to come.
Thank you, Carrie. Wow. Great job. Marcos Ontiveros, is a first generation American who started at this plant to support his family 17 years ago. Marcos rose through leadership to become a production lead. Marcos, please come up and say a few words, please.
Thank you, Mr. President. As the president said, I started here about 16 going on 17 years. I was fresh out of high school, had no idea what I wanted to do with my life, but I knew I had two young children that I had to support and I had to support fast. I’m honored to say that I found that here at Whirlpool within these four walls, I have been able to not only provide but continue to develop myself into a career path that I never would have dreamed of when I was 18 years old coming out of there. As Ms. Wallace stated, I too I’m very grateful for the tariffs that were put against our foreign competitors in 2018, to take that instability away from our everyday lives and provide a longevity of stability and support for these American jobs here in these four walls. As our president said, I am a first generation from an immigrant family, my father was an immigrant, he came here to chase the American Dream, and I can say I’m fortunate enough to find my American Dream within these four walls here at Whirlpool. Thank you very much.
Thank you, both. And Marcos had a beautiful speech written and he never looked down, you never even looked down at that speech. I’m impressed with both of you. I’m impressed. To every worker here at Whirlpool, thank you once again for welcoming us, it’s an honor to be here. And thank you for your commitment to American manufacturing, you’re a great company with great people. Together, we will bring back our jobs, we will bring back our factories, and we will bring back our American Dream. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you. [inaudible 00:00:13]. Well, thank you very much, please. Great honor to have you at The White House, and we’re here today to celebrate the passage of truly landmark legislation that will preserve America’s majestic, natural wonders, priceless historic treasures, and that’s exactly what they are, grand national monuments and glorious national parks. This is a very big deal and from an environmental standpoint, and from just the beauty of our country standpoint, there hasn’t been anything like this since Teddy Roosevelt, I suspect. In a few moments I will proudly sign the Great American Outdoors Act into law. And so many of the people here today have been so involved and I’ll be introducing you and some will say a few words, and we really appreciate what you’ve done for our country.
For more than 50 years, Congress has struggled to adequately fund land and water conservation leading to a never ending backlog of maintenance and other critical needs in our parks and public lands, and I’ve been hearing about this for years. I’ve been watching it and hearing about it for years. Today, more than 5,500 miles of road, 17,000 miles of trails, and 24,000 buildings are in critical need of repair, and have been for a long time. Many are closed, boarded up, they thought it was less expensive to close them than it was to repair them, some of them magnificent too. Earlier this year, I called in Congress to pass legislation that would end this maintenance backlog once and for all. Today, we’re making the most significant investment in our park since the administration of the legendary conservationists President Theodore Roosevelt. This landmark legislation would not have been possible without the incredible leadership and hard work of two outstanding senators in particular, and two fine people Cory Gardner and Steve Daines, I want to thank you both.
And I can just say, as a side note, they would call me all the time. And I said, “Can you guys stop calling me so much?” But they would call me all the time, they wanted to get it done. This was very important to them, so I appreciate it, Steve and Cory, really a great job. People thought you had zero chance of getting this one done, this is big. And they gave you zero chance, you know that right? “Don’t waste your time on a president, we have other things to do. Be great if we could get it, but it’s never going to happen.” Congratulations, great job. Thank you.
I also want to thank senators, [inaudible 00:03:17] Rob Portman, Lamar Alexander, Martha McSally, John Hoffman, and representatives, Don Young, Jeff Fortenberry and Tom Reed, and I think they’re all here, right? Yes, hi Rob. Good, good, thank you, thank you. We’re honored also to be joined by Vice President Mike Pence, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt, Agricultural Secretary Sonny Perdue, a person named Ivanka Trump, does everybody know… Who’s been very, very active in this, she believes in it very strongly, and many wonderful conservation advocates. And thank you all for your tireless work and the work you’ve done is something that you’ll be very proud of in the years to come. Thank you, Mike, everybody, thank you very much. Very good.
The Great American Outdoors Act provides $900 million a year in guaranteed funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund so that all Americans can continue to enjoy our parks, wildlife, refuges. I mean, you look at this, you look at what we do with our wildlife, and it’s really been incredible. So all of the wildlife areas, the wildlife parks, historic battlefields, national monuments and public lands. Additionally, this bill provides nearly $10 billion for long delayed maintenance projects, repairs, and upgrades to make the national parks greater than they have ever been before, I think that’s going to happen. The legislation I’m signing today builds on my administration’s unwavering commitment to conserving in the grander and the splendor of God’s creation, this is truly God’s creation. Last year, I designated 1.3 million acres of public land as new wilderness. I ordered much more active forest management to prevent catastrophic wildfires, I’m recommending they do that in California and other locations and you’ll see how quickly the wildfires stop. And I signed the Save Our Seas Act to protect our environment from foreign nations that litter the oceans with garbage and pollution.
The United States is among the cleanest air and water on earth, and my administration is working every day to keep it that way. We’re at a level now, we have never been at this level in the modern age. I guess if you go back a hundred, 200 years, it was a little different story, a lot fewer people, but nothing even close in the modern age. We are that we can protect our treasured environment without bludgeoning our workers and crushing our businesses, and we’re standing up to international tribunals that punish Americans while allowing foreign nations to pollute with impunity. We have other nations, China, Russia, India, many other nations that are not doing the job they should be, and we do it. It’s very costly, it costs our businesses a lot of money. It’s probably not fair and the impact is smaller, it’s minimal by comparison to what it could be, but we’re working with other countries to try and get them to up their game.
We believe Americans know best how to conserve this magnificent land that we love and cherish and adore. Earlier this year, I announced that the United States would join the One Trillion Trees Initiative to plant new trees in America and around the world. Today, I’m calling on Congress to expand this effort by passing the REPLANT Act, sponsored by Senator Rob Portman. Thank you, Rob, very good. Thank you. [inaudible 00:07:14] thank you. Thank you, fellows would you both stand up please? That’s fantastic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, John. Thank you, Rob.
Which would quadruple the funding and for the restoration of our national forest, this would quadruple the funding, create thousands of jobs and help plant more than one billion trees in America and on American soil over the next 10 years. When you add all of this to what we did in Utah, if you remember that that was a year and a half ago, but we did [inaudible 00:07:46] Bears Ears National Monument. When you add all of this to Bears Ears, I would say, and it got my attention when Steve and the whole group came up to my office… Actually, both of you came up with a group and you said, “This would be bigger then Theodore Roosevelt.” I said, “Do me a favor, you don’t have to say that. Let’s just say it will be the same or almost as good because he was truly the great conservation president.” But the kind of things we’ve done, and they don’t talk about it, but the kind of things we’ve done are really record setting, this is record setting stuff and you’re all a big part of it. So thank you, and thank you, Rob, great job.
To preserve America’s brilliance for the next generation we’re also defending our national heritage. In June I signed an executive order requiring the Department of Justice to prosecute to the full extent, extent allowed under law, anyone who defaces our historic statues or monuments. Under my order these criminals face 10 years in jail, 10 years in prison. And it was an incredible thing because we were having a lot of problems all over the country with people going around and knocking down monuments, some very beautiful monuments and they were knocking…
Some very beautiful monuments and they were knocking them down with impunity, as they would say. And once I signed that, I haven’t seen anything happen. It’s amazing David, the way it quieted down. Right? Once I signed that, it was about two months ago now. They were having a march on Washington to knock down a lot of monuments. And I signed it before the march. We announced it at a news conference. That you go to jail for 10 years, if you knock down a monument and the march to Washington never happened. I don’t know, that’s strange how that all works. Isn’t it though? Isn’t that a beautiful thing?
After decades of abandonment and neglect, we’re once again, taking care of America’s historic sites, lush forests, towering mountains, wind swept and beautiful wind swept prairies and precious wetlands and wildlife. President Theodore Roosevelt was right when he called these exquisite resources, the most glorious heritage a people ever received. President Roosevelt understood that our nation’s untamed spirit of adventure, exploration and discovery is kindled in the great outdoors. It’s the same spirit that calls settlers and pioneers to head West to brave the unknown and to carve out a new life on the wild frontier. The president understood and enshrined conservation at the heart of the Republican party. And today we are building upon that noble legacy. The Republican party has been unbelievably active in this. People don’t necessarily associate us with that, but I think they probably will have to start at some point. They’ll have to start thinking about the Republican party and all of the incredible things we’ve done on conservation and many other fronts.
We want every American child to have access to pristine outdoor spaces. When young Americans experience the breathtaking beauty of the Grand Canyon, when their eyes widened in amazement as Old Faithful bursts into the sky. When they gaze upon Yosemite’s towering Sequoia’s, their love of country grows stronger. And they know that every American has truly a duty to preserve this wondrous inheritance. And that’s what they’re doing. And that’s what we’re doing. We’re preserving an incredible inheritance. America’s natural landscapes belong to the American people. And while I’m president, we will always protect the great outdoors for hunting, fishing, camping, hiking, and the admiration enjoyment and reverence of every American citizen. We will preserve the stunning beauty of the American and the Americas. And this nation is a special nation.
I was watching the other day NASA. NASA was essentially closed down and now I’m watching those rockets go up. And it’s a beautiful thing to see. Over the weekend, we just saw the capsule and how professional, how brave they were, but how professional it was handled, professionally. And it was really something to behold, but we started up NASA again and very soon we’ll be going to Mars. And we are very importantly, we created the Space Force and NASA will be a big part of that. So that’s defense. That’s not going to Mars, that’s defending our country. And it’s something that’s very, very important to what we’ve done when I first went to the headquarters. And I went with Mike and I looked at runways that were loaded up with weeds that hadn’t been used. It was almost like an abandoned place.
And now I look at it, I was there two months ago and it was an incredible sight. So different, so vibrant, people working, people happy. It’s really something what they’ve done, but that’s another thing that we’ve done. And it’s something I’m very proud of. With that, I’d like to, again, congratulate everybody in this room and we’re going to have a few people speak, and I’d like to start off with our great Vice President Mike Pence. And Mike, if you’d say a few words and then we’re going to go to a couple of other folks. Okay? Good. Thank you very much. Mike.
Well, thank you Mr. President. Thank you for letting me speak for just a few moments about this historic day. Today, thanks to your leadership, thanks to the vision of members of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Today, you will sign into law, the Great American Outdoors Act, which will be the single largest investment in America’s national parks and public lands in the history of this country.
And I know I speak for all of those gathered here, but every American who cherishes all of our great natural resources, when I say thank you for your leadership. I also Mr. President, want to join you in thanking the visionary leaders of the Senate, Senator Steve Daines, Senator Cory Gardner. We would not be here without your vision for the Great American Outdoors Act. Thank you for helping to preserve our great natural heritage. And to all of the distinguished members of the Senate and the House of Representatives who supported this bill, as well as Secretary Bernhardt, Secretary Perdue, members of the Fish and Wildlife, the Forest Service and all the people that work in our national parks. I will tell you, Mr. President, as you know, Mrs. Pence and I spent a lot of time loading our kids in the minivans, driving out. We visited almost every major national park. That was the Pence family vacation. And Karen has been visiting national parks as we’ve begun to open back up our country again. And I’m proud to say as an early installment of this incredible investment in maintenance, Secretary Bernhardt had the Pence’s actually pounding nails and rebuilding the boardwalk at Old Faithful just last year. And so I want to thank the secretary in particular for his great commitment to preserving our parks and our natural heritage. Mr. President, the American people know we have the best national parks in the world, but the truth is under the last administration, we saw backlog of maintenance. For all the talk about the environment, we saw projects left aside and ignored literally $20 billion of work left to be done. But thanks to your leadership Mr. President, and thanks to the Great American Outdoors Act, all those who supported it, those days are over.
With these resources, Mr. President, you’re not only going to revive and restore our parks $9.5 billion over the next five years in a new fund without spending a dime of taxpayer funds. But also we’re told, I know you’ll be happy to know Mr. President, that this will also, we believe create more than 110,000 infrastructure jobs. As we improve our national parks, we’re putting Americans back to work.
Mr. President, as you know, I’ve long believed that faith and freedom and our vast natural resources are the pillars of America’s greatness. You’ve been dedicated from the first days of this administration to preserving all of our God given ideals and our values, but today, by signing this extraordinary and historic bill. The Great American Outdoors Act, you’re making a commitment to preserve all of our natural blessings from sea to shining sea for generations to come. And on behalf of a grateful nation. Mr. President, thank you for your leadership for conservation of our great treasures.
Thank you. Thank you, Mike very much. Thank you. A man who’s done a fantastic job, Secretary of the Interior. David, if you could come up and say a few words, and he really has, he loves it. He loves the interior. He’s our biggest landlord in this country by a factor of about 200, but it’s really been very special having you working for our country. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you. I want to begin by thanking not only you, but the first lady, the vice president, the second lady and the advisor to the president Ivanka Trump. Each of you have contributed greatly to getting to this moment, and I want you …
Each of you have contributed greatly to getting to this moment, and I want you to know that America deeply appreciates it. Now, Washington, D.C. is a place where you find hyperbole on every single corner, but the legislation you’re about to sign is truly consequential and it is historic. For those of you that do not track conservation history on a daily basis, I thought I would give you a little perspective. About 35 years ago to the day on August 15th, 1985, President Reagan in this building made a appointment of a young governor in Tennessee to lead the commission to look at America’s great outdoors. Two years later, that governor from Tennessee would provide the President a proposal that included numerous things, including an idea to permanently fund with a dedicated funding source land and water conservation initiatives. That governor is now Senator Lamar Alexander, and he’s here today. Last night, I added it up, five presidents, nine secretaries of the interior, and 10 secretaries of agriculture have worked on legislation to accomplish fully funding the Land and Water Conservation Fund or enhancing our nation’s parks by addressing the backlog. Only one president has gotten that done and that is you. The reality is, absent your call for bold leadership and stepping forward, this bill would not have become law despite the efforts of everybody else. And I want you to know that America will deeply, deeply appreciate it. Thank you for your leadership.
Thank you, David. I appreciate it very much and appreciate the job you’re doing. And also, Sunny, I appreciate the job you’re doing, a fantastic job. The farmers are very happy. They’ve gotten billions and billions of dollars compliments of China. They were targeted by China and I got them every penny, $28 billion from China. And they’re doing well. I’d like to ask if I might, Steve, could you come up? Senator Steve Daines, he’s a fantastic man, a fantastic Senator. He’s done a wonderful job. He loves this state and he loves our country. And without you and the two of you with Corey and you and Robin, frankly, everybody in this room, but you two guys were just unbelievable. You wouldn’t stop and look what happened, right? You got it done. I’m not even sure if you believed you could get it done, but you got it done and we appreciate it. The country appreciates it. Steve, please.
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. This really is a great day for Montana. This is a great day for America. This is a great day for conservation and all of us who love the great outdoors. And it was a little over five months ago, Mr. President when we came to the White House and we were in the Roosevelt Room. It was only fitting we were in the Roosevelt Room having this meeting, and we talked about the importance of the Great American Outdoors Act, how we needed to support our national parks. As the secretary just laid out, how it had been neglected in many ways with maintenance, it was this backlog, how we needed to provide better access to our public lands. In fact, 70% of the fishing accesses in Montana are funded by the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
This was going to be the greatest achievement in 50 years for conservation in its broadest context. And you said to me, Mr. President, he said, “You get this bill on my desk, and I’ll sign it.” Well, five months later we’re here. And thanks to so many in this room and outside this room, we got this bill to your desk and you’re going to sign it. This is a big win for conservation. It’s a big win for jobs. It’s a big win for our Montana way of life. It’s a big win for bipartisanship. And perhaps it’s only fitting it took public lands to bring a divided government together. Mr. President, Montana thanks you, America thanks you and I thank you for signing the most important piece of conservation legislation in over 50 years for our great country. Thank you.
That’s a great job, Steve. Thank you, Steve. Thank you. Say hello to the people of Montana. They’re very happy right now. There’s a very terrible term, it’s called deferred maintenance. Deferred maintenance. It doesn’t sound good, but this is what it is. We haven’t maintained our roads, our paths, our buildings, any of it for many, many decades, actually. So now you’re going to go to town and they’re going to be beautiful, right? They’re going to be beautiful. But this is really, it’s deferred maintenance and it should have taken place for many, many decades, but it hasn’t, and now it will take place. And I think you’ll see it take place very wisely too. I think so. So, Corey, I think you have to get up and you have to say a few words. Colorado’s a tremendous state and they are pushing for it and they have been pushing for it. One of the biggest beneficiaries of all. And I think that you really deserve to get up and say a few words because you and Steve and everybody, but you and Steve were very special. Please, Senator Cory Gardner.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. I will never forget that moment five months ago when we gathered with so many of the people who are in this room and talked about the importance of this legislation, the fact that this bill would create over 100,000 jobs. And the fact that many of those jobs would be in some of the communities that were hardest hit today by the pandemic is a remarkable occasion. But it was 127 years ago, Mr. President, in 1893, that Katharine Lee Bates climbed to the top Pike’s Peak. And she looked across the plains and mountains of Colorado and wrote the words to America the Beautiful. 127 years later, we passed the Great American Outdoors Act, which will truly protect and provide opportunities for all America to enjoy those wonders of this country that Katharine Lee Bates wrote about then.
This bill will created 100,000 jobs, several thousand in my home state of Colorado. It will protect the forest service, our fish and wildlife service, our wildlife refuges, our BLM grounds. This will work on our national parks. This will stop Congress from stealing the money that they have for decades and put it back into the national parks for generations to come. To the secretaries who are here, Secretary Purdue, Secretary Bernhardt, thank you for your leadership in getting this done. To my colleagues in the Senate and the House, thank you for your leadership. We stand on the shoulders of people like Lamar Alexander, Rob Portman, and Don Young, people like Richard Burr. And thanks to Joe Manchin, and Mark Warner, and Angus King and the work that they did to get this bill here today. This is a remarkable opportunity to celebrate.
In the midst of acrimony, in the midst of partisanship, in the midst of times when the American people probably look out and wonder if they can get anything done, Congress came together to pass the most significant bill, the Great American Outdoors Act in over 50 years with the largest infusion of funding this country has ever seen. Thanks to you, Mr. President, for being willing to sign it. When we walked into the Roosevelt Room and we showed you the pictures of Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park and we pointed at that painting of Teddy Roosevelt, we knew it was going to be something very special for this country. Thank you for making it happen.
Thank you very much. That was a meeting that took place, and within about a minute, I was convinced. And I wasn’t at all convinced before I walked in, but when we saw what was going on and what could go on, and I know you’ll spend the money very wisely, everybody in the room, you’ll spend it very wisely. Because if you spend it wisely, you’ll be able to do five times more than you even think. I’d like to ask Ivanka to come up, just say a few words, because she was, from a family standpoint, she was so behind this and pushing me. And Melania, who sends her absolute warmest regards-
Me and Melania, who sends her absolute warmest regards. It was so important to Melania. Please, honey, come up. Say a few words.
Well, thank you, Mr. President. And I echo the sentiments conveyed by so many in this room. This is a day for great celebration. This is an extraordinary piece of legislation that will be a great legacy for this administration and most importantly, the country. We’re grateful to everyone who worked on it. I think Theodore Roosevelt, who we see on this portrait behind would be very proud to know that the first 100 of conservation, that his legislation ensured will be preserved for at least the next 100. Thank you to all the senators members of Congress who have worked so hard. Mr. Vice President, thank you for your championing this and your advocacy. The natural beauty and majesty of our parks and public lands are more valuable now than ever, especially during the current pandemic when they offer respite for so many families and an ability to be outside safely and enjoy the great outdoors. It’s fitting that this moment comes to pass now. And thank you again, Mr. President for ushering in this historic act. Thank you.
Great job. Great job, honey. Thank you. If I could, I’d like to ask Rob Portman to come up. He was very special. I think you would both agree that he was really there behind the scenes and in front of the scenes, helping us out. Rob, please.
Well, first I had not expected this honor, but I’m not speechless because there’s so much to talk about. Mr. President, this wouldn’t have happened, but for your willingness to show leadership. One thing that hasn’t been said here this morning is that this was a debt on paid for all of our public lands, particularly our national parks, which was the start of this. We have viewed this as a problem because for years and years, we had a debt we weren’t paying. What you have done by saying, “I want to get this done. I’m going to support you,” gave us some momentum on a bipartisan basis to be able to repay that debt. It’s a debt to the American people.
Second, I must say that this was not without controversy. There are some who felt strongly that the oil and gas revenues and other energy revenues, offshore and onshore, that are used to provide this funding, both for the land and water conservation fund and for the deferred maintenance and our public lands, that that funding is better used elsewhere. Again, the people in this room, including some good fiscally conservative Republicans, I consider myself one, believed that this was an exceptional situation because this was a debt unpaid. And that this funding was appropriate based on the way in which the oil and gas revenue royalties were initially envisioned to go to help with regard to our natural resources and our environment. But it was not without controversy, right Mr. Vice President? It looks good at the end. The vote was strong, but it wasn’t easy to get there.
And so, I thank you very much for your leadership. I also want to thank Mark Warner, who is my co-author of the Restore Parks Act and Lamar Alexander and Angus King. And then of course, what Cory Gardner and Steve Daines were able to do in knitting this together, along with Joe Mansion and others. But Mr. Present that meeting was consequential. Again, this was not as easy as it might look here at the end, but incredibly important. And I believe that decades from now, we all look back and be very proud of the fact that we have indeed conserved this America’s great treasures for future generations. Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much. Thank you. I have to say that one of the things I said in the room was, “I can’t believe previous administrations didn’t do this.” And I viewed it as having really no choice. We had to do this. We had to do this. We couldn’t have allowed this to deteriorate or go down further and now it will be better than ever before. That’s what we want, better than ever before. Congratulations to everybody. And now I will sign the Great American Outdoors Act, and it’s going to be a real privilege. Thank you. And if we could have a few folks come on up. Thank you very much. Please, stand up. Thank you.
This is a big one.
It’s a big bill.
I want to have that signature look good.
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Great job. Great job. We’ll see you soon. See you at the next one.
That’s right.
Mr. President, this is a Mountain Man Walking Stick.
Oh, wow.
Great Smokey Mountain [crosstalk 00:00:33:16].
Very nice. [crosstalk 00:33:27].
Good. Very good. Congratulations.
The work on national security. Mr. President, the work on national security. I got to tell you from my wife, she says the most important thing is the work you’re doing on national security.
Good and we’re doing a good job on it. You have the [inaudible 00:33:53]. I’m going to take that stick with me.
Mr. Vice President.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you, everybody. Great job. Thank you.
Well thank you very much everybody. Please. This promises to be a very big and very important meeting, so bear with me. Take a little while, but it has to do with a thing called drug pricing and as you know Congress has been working on this for decades and decades and we are now doing something that is going to be incredible for the American public. So today I’m taking a bold and historic, very dramatic action to reduce the price of prescription drugs for American patients and American seniors. Previous administrations did nothing, absolutely nothing, as drug lobbyists, special interests in foreign countries [inaudible 00:00:51] ripped off our citizens. Under the last administration alone, drug prices rose a staggering 55%. Thanks to my administration’s aggressive actions since taking office, we have successfully lowered drug prices for the first time in 51 years, but this reduction is still not close to what I want, what I expect, and I’m looking for help for our great seniors especially in particular, that’s what we’re doing today. You’ll hear something which will be very shocking, we’re doing things that nobody thought could be done and it’s going to have an incredible impact.
Unfortunately we’ve been waiting for Congress to take action for many decades to reduce drug prices for more than just a small handful of people, but even the small handful of people never got price reductions, and I’m unwilling to wait any longer. Therefore today I’m signing four sweeping executive orders that will lead to a massive reduction in drug costs, massive. We’ve already gotten them down a little bit, but that’s not good enough, first time in 51 years as I said, but that’s not good enough. They represent the most far-reaching prescription drug reforms ever issued by a president. Nothing even close.
Joining us for this important occasion are our Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex, where’s Alex? Alex, thank you, Alex Azar. CMS administrator, both doing a great job, Seema Verma. Seema, thank you Seema. FDA administrator Dr. Stephen Hahn, Stephen who is really speeding up the process of therapeutics and vaccines and I just heard from some of the big drug companies in there saying the FDA has really been moving the process along. Very important, Stephen. Can you move faster please? Okay. Thank you, great job. We appreciate it. And administrator of Health Resources and Service Administration Tom Engels. Tom, thank you. Thank you very much Tom for being here.
We’re also pleased to have with us our great governor from the state of Florida, incredible state, incredible guy, Governor Ron DeSantis, thank you Ron very much. Appreciate it and you’re going to say a few words in the end, good. Representative Matt Gaetz, our friend. Where is … Hi Matt, you’re so quiet back there today. I’ve never seen you like that. Thank you Matt, great job you’re doing. Appreciate it very much. Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives Jose Oliva. Jose, thank you Jose very much, good job, and many other state and local leaders, we have a lot of them. Thank you very much being here.
The four orders I’m signing today will completely restructure the prescription drug market in terms of pricing and everything else to make these medications affordable and accessible for all Americans. The first order will require federal community health centers to pass the giant discounts they receive from drug companies on insulin and EpiPens directly to their patients. You know, insulin became so expensive people weren’t able to use it. They desperately needed it. We have it to a level that you’re not going to believe. EpiPens, likewise. You’ve been reading horrible stories about EpiPens over the last six, seven years. Horrible, horrible, horrible increases, where they went from almost nothing to massive amounts of money. We’re changing that right now. These providers should not be receiving discounts for themselves while charging their poorest patients massive full prices. Under this order the price of insulin for affected patients will come down to just pennies a day, pennies a day from numbers that you weren’t able to think about. It’s a massive cost savings.
The second executive order I’m signing this afternoon will allow states, wholesalers and pharmacies to do something other politicians have promised for decades and decades but never done. They never delivered. We will finally allow the safe and legal importation of prescription drugs from Canada and other countries where the price for the identical drug is incredibly lower. It’s a difference like you wouldn’t believe. 70%, 80%, 90%, 30%, but massively lower than the identical drug made in the same plant, the same factory, the same exact drug, same everything, same box, same pill, and yet it’s 50, 60, 70% lower and this is something that Ron and I have been discussing from the time Ron got elected and I’ve been wanting to do it and it takes a long time from a legal standpoint and we’ve got it all worked out.
So we are going to be getting massive drug savings in Florida and other states and we’ve had numerous states that wanted to do it. Ron really was at the forefront, I will say that, but you have other states that have caught on, it’s caught on very quickly. Didn’t take them long to figure that one out, Ron. It’s too obvious. We pay for all of the research and all of the developments and foreign countries pay absolutely nothing and our consumer gets charged. This has been going on for decades. The American people pay an average of over three times more for medicine than the Canadians. Many people go to Canada, I see it all the time, they go to Canada, buy drugs and then they come back, prescription drugs because they save so much money. The trip is well worth it.
The Obama-Biden administration pledged to end this unfairness and allow drug importation but they never got it done. They were unable to get it done. They didn’t get a lot of things done, but under my administration we’re standing up to the lobbyists and special interests and fighting back against a rigged system. Rigged system, you’ve heard that word before. I am unrigging the system that is many decades old. We’re doing something that should have been done a long time ago.
The third revolutionary order I’m signing today will prevent middlemen and women I guess, but you’ve heard about the middleman, right? The middleman that makes so much money, nobody knows who they are, nobody has any idea who they are, they make more money perhaps than even the drug companies themselves, and the drug companies in all fairness to them, big pharma and they’re doing a great job on the vaccines, they’re doing a great job on therapeutics I can tell you because I deal with them a lot, but I think the middlemen make more money than they do and they don’t do much. Maybe they don’t do anything. Some people say they don’t do anything. Nobody even knows who they are, but the middlemen are making a fortune and pharmacy benefit managers and people are just bilking Medicare patients with these high drug prices while they pocket gigantic discounts, gigantic discounts. The amount of money they have made over the decades is too incredible even to speculate or say, it’s massive.
Some very rich people are not going to like me very much today, I can tell you. I probably know them very well, I probably see them in Palm Beach, but nobody ever talks about who they are. Everyone, I hear the middlemen for years, the middlemen. Right Alex? He doesn’t know who they are either but he knows they’re rich. They’re not going to be so rich anymore because the money is going down to reduce the price of drugs, prescription drugs. So that’s a big thing. That’s a tremendous step. It should have been taken a long time ago but they have a great deal of power and I don’t have to tell you how many phone calls I’ve had in the last few days when they heard I was going to be doing this. I’ve heard from people that I haven’t spoken to in a long time. Frequently drug companies give these middlemen discounts of up to 50% on the price of prescription drugs, but too often those discounts are not passed on to the pharmacy counter, meaning the people. This rule will pass, those billions and billions of dollars a year, I mean many, many billions a year in discounts onto patients, directly onto patients, saving Americans with high drug costs thousands of dollars a year. Individual people will make thousands of dollars a year.
You’re not going to believe the impact the things we’re talking about today are going to have. Mark Meadows, our great chief is sitting here and he’s just … Can’t even believe it because he was a very successful congressman, he’s been after people to do this for a long time and they never got to the gate. I understand why, tremendous pressure. Tremendous pressure put on the president not to do it.
The fourth and final order I’m signing today is the granddaddy of them all. We’ll end global freeloading on the backs of American patients and American seniors. For decades, our citizens have paid the highest prices for drugs, prescription drugs anywhere in the world and it’s not even close. Foreign nations have paid vastly less
“Foreign nations have paid vastly less for the exact same drug again, and the exact same box, from the exact same plant, from the exact same company. They would pay 10%, 20%, 30% what our people are paying. A pill that would sell for $1 in certain countries, I won’t name them. They’re all allies, right? They call them allies. I call them so-called allies, but a pill that would cost a dollar could be 7, $8 in our country, same exact pill. We pay 80% more than nations like Germany, Canada and others for some of the most expensive medicines, identical in all respects. This means that Americans are funding the enormous cost of drug research and development for the entire planet. We are bearing the entire cost of all of this. They’re bearing none. They say, “This is what we’re going to pay.” In some cases, it’s a socialist country. So we’re paying to reduce drug prices in a socialist country. How does that work? How does that work?
And these are things that should have been done a long time ago. And even from our standpoint, we would have done it more quickly, but we have to go through vast amounts of waiting periods, waiting times, and this is an incredible day. This is just a big day. It is a big day. I’ve been waiting for this day for a long time. We incredibly and foolishly bear the full cost of all research and development, which is massive. In all fairness to the drug companies, can take 15 years to get something approved, billions and billions of dollars for a simple drug. It also means that the US taxpayers are effectively subsidizing the socialist healthcare systems of foreign welfare states and many other countries. We will end that abuse and restore the principles of free enterprise, but this doesn’t even have to do with free enterprise. This has to do with common sense and courage, to be honest, and courage.
Under this transformative order, Medicare will be required to purchase drugs at the same price as other countries pay. So we would pay four or five times more for a drug, we now pay … If somebody else pays $1 and we pay $5, we’re paying $1. Now what’s going to happen is their number will go up, our number will come very substantially down and we’ll all agree at two and a half or two or whatever the final number is. But if some country is paying wherever it may be in the world because they had a better negotiator, because they had smarter people that we have, and that’s what it’s all about. Maybe more honest people. Who knows? Could be a lot of things going, but we get now the lowest price anywhere in the world and no more will we have to suffer by saying, “Gee, why is it so much cheaper for the exact same drug in some other country?” We will determine what other medically advanced nations pay for the most expensive drugs. And instead of paying the highest price, Medicare will pay the lowest price and so will lots of other US buyers.
Medicare is the largest purchase of drugs anywhere in the world by far. Medicare, largest purchaser of drugs in the world, and we’re finally going to use that incredible power to achieve a fairer and lower price for everyone. Everyone will get a fairer and much lower price. This is not talking about one half of a percent. This is big stuff. Under our ridiculous system, which has been broken for decades, we aren’t even allowed to negotiate the price of drugs. Can you believe it? I said, “When are we going to negotiate?” We’re not allowed. We’re restricted by Congress from negotiating the price of drugs. Can you imagine? You say, “I want to get a better price. Oh I’m sorry, sir. You’re not allowed to do that. That’s illegal.” What kind of a system is that? Do you think the world looks at us and said, “Where the hell did these people come from?” But they treat us very nicely. It’s going to end, okay? I see you’re a fan of what we’re saying. You must be a doctor. Are you a doctor? Yeah. Doctors know. The doctors know. You’ve known that for years. We’re not allowed to negotiate. Can you believe it? We just have to take whatever it is.
I’m pleased to announce that as a result of the orders I’m signing today, the heads of the major drug companies have requested a meeting to discuss how we can quickly and significantly lower drug prices and out of pocket expenses for Americans. They want to do what’s right. Look, they’re going to do what’s right. Look, I think it’s so important what they’re doing on therapeutics and vaccines, and we’re going to see them on Tuesday. We’ll see if we can do something here, but this could have been done a long time ago. The drug company executives will be at the White House on Tuesday, and they have some ideas how to significantly reduce drug prices. We’ve already given them to you. I don’t know if they can possibly do something to substitute for what’s called favored nations. Favored nations, that means we get the lowest price anywhere in the world. Whoever gets the best price, congratulations. Thank you very much for being a good negotiator because we now get the lowest price too. Should have been done a long time ago.
If these talks that are successful, we may not need to implement the fourth executive order, which is a very tough order for them. Very tough, and I understand that, and we have a lot of respect for our great pharmaceutical companies, drug companies. We have a lot of respect for them, so we’ll see what they have to say on Tuesday. Maybe they have an idea that’s good, but it’s got to be very substantial. They’re actually in favor of the rebate rule, of the roll back because they say that’s people getting money that aren’t even doing anything for it and bigger money than they’re getting I believe. If they are not, the order will be implemented. If we don’t do a deal or agree to something, the order, number four, favored nations, a big order. They’re all big, all four are very big, by the way, very big. But the fourth order, we’re going to hold that until August 24th, hoping that the pharmaceutical companies will come up with something that will substantially reduce drug prices, and the clock starts right now. So it’s August 24th at 12:00 o’clock, after which the order on favored nations will go into effect and Mark I’ll hold you to it please. 12:00 o’clock not 12:01 right?
In the meantime, we’re working very hard on therapeutics and a vaccine for the China virus, which remains our top priority and which are coming along at record speed. Thank you very much Dr. Hahn, been fantastic. You really have been fantastic. Two vaccine candidates are entering the final stage of clinical trials this month, right? Two. And several more vaccines will enter final trials in the following weeks. I did speak to one just recently. They’re working on therapeutics as opposed to vaccine and frankly, that’s the most exciting to me. We can walk into a hospital right now and get people better. I like that even more, but the vaccine long-term will be great.
So we have them both going. They’re both going rapidly and they’re both going very well and I guess the early indications are beyond happy, right? It’s beyond happy. We’re mass producing all of the most promising candidates already so that on day one … That means that we think we have the answer. Otherwise, we wouldn’t be making that bet. It’s a big bet. So that in day one, the day we get it approved, it will be available immediately. Doctor, is that correct? So if we get it approved … Now, normally this process would take to get up to where we are now three years, four years. I’ve heard numbers like that, and we did it in literally a matter of weeks. It’s a really incredible thing.
One of the other things, I was talking about drugs in the pipeline for getting drugs approved, and it does cost billions of dollars, and it would be 12 years, 15 years. And under Dr. Hahn and Scott, before you worked very hard, Scott Gottlieb, we’ve got that down to a number that’s less than half and we’re going down further. We have to make sure it’s safe and right to try came out of this whole thing where we have a drug that we think is good. Matt Gates helped with this and getting it approved and Mark, when he was a Congressman, but we had great help from certain people, but right to try is incredible. We have a drug that works, but it’s got to go through this very long and very detailed process for purposes of safety and to make sure it’s good.
If somebody is terminally ill, very sick, person not going to make it, person very sick, we passed legislation which they’ve been trying to get for 42 years. It’s called right to try where people sign a document that if it doesn’t work out, they’re not suing the drug company, they’re not suing the insurance company and they’re not suing our country. And instead of traveling, if they have money, they travel to Asia and they travel to Europe. They travel all over the world in the hopes of finding a cure, they’re terminally ill. If they have no money, sadly they go home with no hope and they die. We have now a program, right to try, finally happened after, I guess as long as you’ve been a doctor, long before you became a doctor, right? They’ve been trying to get this, but we have a program where they can try these really promising medicines and you have no idea how successful this has already been. It’s incredible.
And one of the things that really came out of it was the biggest problem for the drug companies. They didn’t want it because they didn’t want it in their sample. Because people that are that sick, they don’t want in the sample. And so we created a separate sample so it doesn’t hurt them. But one of the things that’s come out of it is if it works, what is a better testing formula than that? Some-
What is a better testing formula than that, somebody that’s terminally ill and all of a sudden makes it? We’re having examples of that. It’s been incredible. It’s been an incredible program. I hope somebody’s going to be able to write a story about it because it’s been one of the things that I’m very proud of it. I love the name even. They have the right to try a drug that’s not going to be available for two years or three years, the terminally ill. Before, you’d say, “Well, the terminally ill. Yeah, but we don’t want to give them a drug that’s going to hurt them.” Well, they going to die. They didn’t want to give them a drug because they thought it might be dangerous. Perhaps, in some cases, it may be dangerous, but we’re having tremendous success with that program. I’m proud of it.
Additionally, my administration has secured 90% of the world’s supply of the drug, remdesivir, which is having great impact, for the United States and research continues daily on a lot of promising treatments as I said. As we take these historic actions, we’re joined today by Americans who have already benefited from the steps my administration has already taken to reduce the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs. We’re going to have a big healthcare bill that we’re going to be putting up very shortly, and it’s going to be very complete.
Today, what we’re doing on prescription drugs… Again, we’ll have to see what happens on August 25th. We’ll either do the favored nations or not depending on the drug companies, but what we’re putting up in a very short period of time on healthcare will be incredible. We have another one coming on immigration, tremendous bill on immigration. It’ll be, I think, something that nobody thought we would be able to get, so that’ll be great. Paul Madden is a senior citizen who relies on insulin every day. He was paying a fortune, everything, to get it. Paul, if you could… I think Paul’s in the audience. If you could please come up and say a few words about your experience. Thank you, Paul. Thank you very much.
So you can hear me.
That’s better.
Mr. President, thank you so very much for this time to share a few key points supporting your leadership work, reducing the price of insulin, and other diabetes- related medicines used by 34 Americans each day to live healthier fuller lives. As you heard, my name is Paul Madden. I’m a Bostonian. I have lived with insulin-dependent diabetes for 59 years.
Beginning Medicare, last year, I quickly realized that my ability to afford prescribed insulins that worked best for my health was no longer possible because of their excessive high price. Soaring costs have impacted the quality of my life. Remember that, now, about 34 million people with diabetes. It’s impacted so much I even started to use a 30-year-old insulin to survive, which does not do quite the same great job of balancing my diabetes. Your work, sir, to ensure that insulin is affordable under Medicare will help guarantee that I and millions of seniors who take insulin realize healthier, more productive and dependent, happier lives. Thank you for continuing your commitment to ensure affordability and access for all who use insulin for people with diabetes and so that our children and grandchildren will directly benefit from our improved health. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Paul. That’s great. It’s actually [inaudible 00:26:04] from many, many, many dollars, unaffordable by most people, to pennies, literally pennies a month. I want to thank Seema Verma. You worked so hard on that one. Seema, could you just say something about that? It was the price. Would you come up just for a second, Seema Verma, and just tell them about what we’ve done with respect to very badly-needed insulin.
Well, the Senior Savings Model that we developed under the president’s leadership is going to reduce the cost of insulin to $35 a month for our seniors. That represents a 66% savings.
[inaudible 00:26:48].
I can tell you the vice president and I were traveling in Pennsylvania. We had a gentleman that came up to us, and he showed us his insulin and he said, “You’re going to save me $5,000 a year,” so thank you, President Trump, for your leadership.
Thank you very much. Great job. That’s a great job. That you. That’s a tremendous difference. We’re also joined by Andrea [Eccles 00:27:19], a dental hygienist from Brunswick, Maryland. Andrea, please come up and say a few words. Thank you. Please.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much.
My name is Andrea Eccles, and I am a dental hygienist in Brunswick, Maryland. I was widowed when my husband died in a tragic auto accident and my twin girls were four at the time. He held our family health insurance through his corporate job, and I suddenly found myself having to work full time and put my children in full-time daycare, watch my budget very closely. This is a number of years ago, and at that time, my only choice for healthcare… I work in a very small dental office, and so my only choice for healthcare at that time was what I call the unaffordable care act.
I was paying very high premiums and copays and way too much for prescription drugs. Interestingly, you referenced the EpiPen. I had to purchase that be pins and inhalers. It got to the point actually where I couldn’t even afford to renew the EpiPen. I think I still have a probably 15-year-old EpiPen at my house because they’ve got to be $700. But in my case, this led-
What did this start at? It’s 700. What did they start-
The original EpiPen, I feel like it was like a $20 copay way back when I first got it, but then as each year… It just kept going up, up to the… But I incidentally ended up with all of these increases in copays and everything over time. I ended up with a over $15,000 medical debt. I’m just a regular person. I don’t have some ridiculously major illnesses or anything.
But during your presidency, President Trump, my premiums have decreased exponentially, and my coverage has increased. My copays have just about disappeared or gone way down, and prescription drugs that I used to budget for myself are at $150 a month is now $15 a month, and because of you, I’m spending hundreds of dollars less a month. This type of savings makes it a really big difference for a single mother such as myself. I just want to thank you so much from the bottom of my-
[crosstalk 00:30:11].
… heart and for all that you do and for all of your policies that are helping all of us Americans.
Thank you very [crosstalk 00:30:18].
Thank you.
[inaudible 00:30:24]. That’s really nice. I appreciate it. Some big difference. That’s not a 1% or 2%. That’s big dollars. I want to thank you both very much. Thank you very much. Today’s actions continue my administration’s relentless drive to deliver better healthcare at a lower cost. I signed an executive order to fight kidney disease. That was such a big thing. That was such a beautiful, important thing to do with more transplants and better treatment. People with kidney disease go through hell. They go through hell. Their life is hell. We’ve done a lot, and we’re very proud of it. We’ve really seen some results that are incredible.
We dramatically expanded the telehealth for all American patients and families in telehealth in this pandemic era have been, it’s increased by, I would say, it was like 1,020%. Incredible. It’s been up at a level that nobody’s ever imagined, and it actually is very good. It’s been something that has come out of the pandemic. One of the only good things that came out of it, frankly, is people are realizing how good that is. It really worked out well.
We strongly defended Medicare and Social Security, and we’ll always protect and we have been protecting and we’ll always will protect Republicans, totally protect preexisting conditions. Very important. Nothing’s going to happen to your preexisting protections. We ended the gag clause that prevented pharmaceuticals and pharmacists from telling patients how to buy less expensive drugs. We had a clause that if you went up to a pharmacist… Is this the correct statement to-
[crosstalk 00:32:16].
… and it’s not even believable. You couldn’t talk about price. If the man or woman behind the counter started talking about price, what happens? You take the license away? This is not even believable. Think of that. It prevented pharmacists from telling patients how to buy less expensive drugs. “We have a less expensive drug that’s just as good. I can’t talk about it.” They can’t even say that. I wonder why? Can you imagine these things? We approved a record number of affordable low-cost generics. We’ve increased generics more than any administration by many times, and many of the generics, I would say from what I’m hearing, all of the generic, sometimes people want to see a label, but they say they’re just as good-
… people want to see a label. But they say they’re just as good as the others except you pay a lot less money. We’ve increased them more than any administration, not even close. And we capped insulin costs that we just discussed for many Medicare recipients, and for a lot of other people at just $35 a month, and it was many times that, as you’ve just heard. Right To Try, I talked about. So proud of it. Nothing matters more to me than the health and wellbeing of the American people. There’s nothing more important to me. With today’s actions, we’re ending decades of sellouts, betrayals, and broken promises from Washington. You’ve had a lot of broken promises. I would say exclusively, broken. You’ve had it. It’s been uniformed, broken promises. We’re putting patients over lobbyists, senior citizens before special interests, and we’re putting America first. I’m putting America first.
When you look at what we’re doing with Favored Nations on the basis that it kicks in on August 25th. We’ll see. Let’s see what they have to offer. But when you think about it, what are we doing? We’re putting America first. When you hear other countries getting a much better deal on drug prices, there are people that have told me this is more important than healthcare. We’re doing healthcare, but this is more important than anything, the price of drugs. They were getting slaughtered, slaughtered by drug prices. So thank you very much. I want to thank you all for being here. I’d like to ask, if I could, Alex to come up, please, Secretary Azar, to say a few words, and then I’ll sign an Executive Order.
I’d also like to ask the Governor of Florida. Ron, you’re going to come up and say a few words and we’ll sign up and you’ll go out and buy those drugs and save 50 or 60% for the people of Florida? And other people will be joining you. And that’s great. I want to let you. You will tell me how you do and I’d work on it really fast because now with all of the media back here, you’re under extraordinary pressure, and you never have pressure. One thing I’ll tell you about Ron, Matt will tell you, he handles pressure well. And you’re doing a great job. Thank you very much. Please. Alex.
Well, Mr. President, thank you so much for your leadership here. You charged all of us with four goals, ending foreign free riding, improving how our federal programs pay for drugs, lowering out of pockets for our citizens, and getting list prices down. And you did your Drug Pricing Blueprint in May of 2018. Before then, every single year there were massive drug price increases, massive price inflation. Since your Drug Pricing Blueprint, that level of inflation has stopped. And that was an incredible accomplishment. But you said, “That’s not good enough. I want more, even more change for the American people.” And today you’re delivering. Allowing importation. Presidents before you have over and over again to allow the safe importation of drugs from lower cost countries. You’re the first President to deliver on it.
You’re going to have Governor DeSantis’ program for States and tribes to import. You’re going to have a personal importation program where individuals can get their drugs low costs from abroad. And you’re going to have an insulin re-importation program so Americans can get their insulin re-imported from Canada at lower prices. You’re taking on the federal health centers. You’re taking on the issue that they are getting radical discounts on insulin and epi-pens and you’re going to make sure low income Americans get the benefit of those discounts. And you’re taking on the middlemen. $30 billion a year of concealed kickbacks to middlemen are going to now flow to Medicare patients when they show up at the pharmacy, an average of 30% discounts at out-of-pockets when they show up at a pharmacy thanks to the President’s bold action.
And we’re going to end foreign free riding, taking on foreign socialist systems that have been living off of American seniors’ investments by overpaying in drug prices, and now they’re going to have to bear their fair share. I’ve got to tell you, what you’ve done and what you’re doing today, you’ve done more than any President in American history to take on drug prices. You’re taking on the drug companies, you’re taking on the middlemen, you’re taking on the European socialists, all for the forgotten men and women of America who show up at a pharmacy counter. And for that, I am so proud of what you were doing today. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Alex. Please, Ron, please.
Well, Mr. President, thanks for your leadership on this. When we started the legislative session in Florida in 2019, our Speaker of the House, Jose Oliva, was here with me. He had a big healthcare agenda. So we did some phenomenal things like expand telehealth, repeal certificate of need laws. But he really wanted to do something big on prescription drugs. I did too, because it’s obviously an issue. But I told Jose, I said, “Listen, we’ve got to find a way where we will actually be able to accomplish something. I don’t want to just throw a flare up there and then virtue signal that we’re doing something about drugs and then nothing works.” And so there was a provision of law which required the federal government’s approval. So we had a plan in Florida. We moved forward. I went to see you.
And this law has been on the books for at least almost 20 years, so other Presidents have had the ability to pull this lever and they didn’t do it. And I went up and asked you, and not everyone was in favor of you doing it. You had a lot of people saying, “Don’t do it.” But you were laser focused on lowering drug prices for people, particularly our seniors in the State of Florida, and that was abundantly clear. And so when Florida then moved forward, we knew we had your support. We knew that this day would eventually come. And I think that the fact that we’re standing here today, obviously, Florida, we did some groundwork, but really it’s a result of Presidential leadership. The people of Florida want to thank you for siding with us on this.
Like I said, this could have been done for almost 20 years and it hasn’t been done. You’re the one that got it done. So, Mr. President, thank you.
Thank you very much, Ron. Thank you. Thank you. So we’re going to sign four very important documents. I just want to thank Amy. And congratulations, Amy, to you. That elevation is a big one. And you’re going to do fantastically. Russell, congratulations. He just got confirmed and we appreciate it. Fantastic job. And Pat, thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you very much. Okay, let’s go. Access to affordable [inaudible 00:40:30]. Thank you, all. Thank you.
[inaudible 00:07:44].
Thank you very much. Number two, Increase In Drug Importation. That’s great. Let Ron have that. Where’s Ron?
I’m right here.
Come on, Ron. Get up here, Ron. It’s yours because that’s what you have to do, right? Importation. Lowering Prices For Patients By Eliminating Kickbacks.
Yes! Woo!
This will go into effect on August 25th if we don’t make a deal, right? Favored Nations. Thank you all very much.
Thank you, Mr. President.
[inaudible 00:42:24].
Thank you again, Matt. Thank you, all.
I would love one.
Thank you.
You got a good deal, huh? Thank you all very much.
Thank you, sir.
Thank, you, sir.
Thank you all very much. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Good luck.
Hello everybody, thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Please. That’s a nice crowd on a nice cool day. It’s beautiful though. Might be hot but it’s beautiful. We’re here today to celebrate and expand our historic campaign to rescue American workers from job-killing regulations. Before I came into office, American workers were smothered by merciless avalanche of wasteful and expensive and intrusive federal regulation. These oppressive burdensome mandates were a stealth tax on our people, slashing take home pay, suppressing innovation, surging the cost of goods, and shipping millions of American jobs overseas. Millions and millions and millions, it never ended. Nearly four years ago, we ended this regulatory assault on the American worker and we launched the most dramatic regulatory relief campaign in American history by far. No other administration has done anywhere near. Thank you.
At the heart of this effort was a revolutionary promise, for every one new regulation issued, we pledged that two federal regulations would be permanently removed. We not only met that ambitious goal which at the time people said was impossible, we vastly exceeded it. For every one new regulation added, nearly eight federal regulations have been terminated. Been an incredible achievement. As you can see behind me, we have removed the gigantic regulatory burden Americans have forced to carry for decades, freeing our citizens to reach their highest potential. Our historic regulatory relief is providing the average American household an extra $3,100.00 every single year and we’re going up from that number. We’re going up from that number. Think of that. $3,100.00 per household. Joining us today is Vice President Mike Pence. Thank you Mike. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, Wilbur, thank you very much. Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia, thank you, thank you [inaudible 00:02:43]. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar. Thank you Alex. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao. Thank you Elaine. We had a great day in Georgia yesterday, cutting regulations like nobody’s ever seen before. EPA administrator Andrew Wheeler, thank you Andrew, thank you very much. OMB acting director Russ Vought, thank you Russ, and Small Business administrator, I love her name, Jovita Carranza. Jovita, thank you, thank you, and CMS administrator Seema Verma, thank you Seema. Great people. Those are great people, they’re doing an incredible job. I also want to thank the many state and local, tribal leaders who join us in this great cause. Thank you very much and thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you all very much. What we have achieved together is truly without precedent, never happened before. The previous administration added over 16,000 pages of heavy-handed regulations to the federal register. That’s why nothing got done. Under my administration, we have removed nearly 25,000 pages of job-destroying regulations, more than any other president by far in the history of our country, whether it was four years, eight years, or in one case, more than eight years. The prior administration piled up more than 600 major new regulations, a cruel and punishing regulatory burden that cost the average American an additional $2,300.00 per year. Think of that, the average American $ 2,300.00 regulation, hitting low-income Americans by far the hardest.
These regulations also inflicted a steep economic toll on African-American communities. By contrast our reforms are putting more money into the pockets of hardworking Americans. In addition to saving every family more than $3,000.00 per year, my administration has just issued another reform that my council of economic advisors estimates will lower the price of new vehicles by more than $2,200.00 per vehicle and I think we’re going to get that up to $3,500.00 per vehicle. It’s very exciting, and by the way, the vehicles will be better, they’ll be stronger, and they’ll be safer. Our regulation cuts are also delivering massive savings on broadband internet services and some home energy bills will be really historically cut. It’s actually amazing, as well as historically low gasoline prices. Gasoline prices, you look today, I think it was $1.99. At the same time, we saved our oil companies. We are now the largest since we’ve been here, the largest energy source in the world. Nobody’s even close so it’s great but we saved them. They had a hard time a number of months ago and frankly for a long time but we’ve saved them. $1.99 they were telling me, in some cases lower than that.
We’re bringing back consumer choice in home appliances so that you can buy washers and dryers, shower heads and faucets. So shower heads, you take a shower, the water doesn’t come out. You want to wash your hands, the water doesn’t come out. So what do you do? You just stand there longer, you take a shower longer. Because my hair, I don’t know about you, but it has to be perfect. Perfect. Dishwashers, you didn’t have any water so the people that do the dishes, you press it and it goes again and you do it again and again. So you might as well give them the water because you’ll end up using less water. So we made it so dishwashers now have a lot more water and in many places, in most places of the country, water is not a problem. They don’t know what to do with it. It’s called rain. They don’t have a problem. And old-fashioned, incandescent light bulbs, I brought them back, I brought them back. They have two nice qualities, they’re cheaper and they’re better. They look better, they make you look so much better, that’s important to all of us, but they’re better and much cheaper and they were mandated out, legislated out, and we brought them back and they’re selling like hot cakes.
We stopped the egregious abuse of the Clean Water Act which extreme activists have used to shut down construction projects all across our country. When I signed that legislation I had many farmers and construction people standing behind me. People that haven’t cried since they were babies, some of them never even when they were a baby and they were crying. Many people were crying. We gave them back their life. They took away their land, they took away their rights, they took away their life. By reigning in EPA overreach, my administration has returned the agency to its core mission of insuring clean air, clean water, and a truly pristine natural environment. Our air now and our water is as clean as it’s been in the last four decades. Yesterday our country achieved yet another groundbreaking milestone by completing a sweeping overhaul of America’s badly broken infrastructure approval process. It was totally out of control.
Instead of taking up to 20 years to approve a major project, we’re cutting the federal permitting timeline, it’s already been done, to a maximum of two years or less, in some cases even less than one year. It’s possible that it won’t qualify, it’s possible that it won’t be good environmentally or safety-wise, in which case at least in a period of a year or two, we’ll raise the hand and you won’t make it, but most projects will make it but you won’t go for 10, 15, 18 or 20 years. There are many horror stories that we could relate.
We’re reclaiming America’s proud heritage as a nation of builders. My administration has also eliminated massive regulatory barriers. In our battle against the China virus, these actions saved countless lives, speeding up the production of equipment. That means ventilators like nobody’s ever seen before. Probably the greatest source of manufacturing, the greatest achievement since World War II. We’re now making ventilators for countries all over the world.
Medicine, accelerating the delivery of life-saving treatments and ensuring that we will have a vaccine in a record time. We’re doing fantastically well on that. That will be for another time, another meeting, but we are doing on therapeutics and vaccines incredibly well. No administration in history has removed more red tape more quickly to rescue the economy and to protect the health of our people. When you think of it, we are all set up, that as we get the vaccine or therapeutic, and we’re set up militarily, we’re going to be delivering it in record time. It’s all set to move. We put an investment upfront and we have logistical people, generals, great people. They’re going to be delivering this all over the country as soon as we have it and we’ve made tremendous progress, you’ve been reading about it.
In total we’ve taken more than 740 actions to suspend regulations that would have slowed our response to the China virus. This includes lifting restrictions on manufacturers so that our great auto workers could produce more than 100,000 ventilators so we’ve done over 100,000 in 100 days. Think of that, and we didn’t have ventilators, we weren’t set up for ventilators. We became a country that’s making a lot of them. Helping so many others. Countries that are never going to be in a position to make them. They’re complex, they’re expensive, they’re big. Very, very, very tough to do and we’ve saved a lot of lives. There’s never been a person in our country, even though we started with almost nothing, I say the cupboard was bare when we took over, we started with nothing. There’s never been a person in our country, even though we had just absolutely … We were going on empty, never been one person that needed a ventilator that didn’t get it. Think of that. Not one person, as complex as they are, as big, as expensive. Take a long time to get them done. Not one person has ever needed a ventilator that didn’t get it. We made telemedicine, thank you. Great job. Great … Really a great job. The people here, they get no credit for it. I don’t want any credit, they should get
People here, they get no credit for it, “I don’t want any credit.” They should get the credit, but they get no credit, but we’ve done a great job helping so many other countries now. We made telemedicine available to all American patients, and allowed doctors to work across state lines. I will tell you, the telemedicine is something that’s really gone up by thousands, and thousands of percentage points, of percent, because what happened is, people that wouldn’t even think of using telemedicine all of a sudden started using it, and it’s really turned out to be good. Really, really turned out to be good, and it solved a lot of problems, so that’s something that’s been great advancement.
Furthermore, I’ve ordered federal agencies to look for ways to make these healthcare reforms totally permanent. Vice President Pence is also working closely with state, local, and tribal leaders to streamline occupational licensing. Over 30 states have taken steps to reduce these barriers to unemployment, and to employment, and including a state that I love very much. I have a little history in that state, the great state of Alaska. Thank you very much, governor, for being here, Mike Dunleavy. Mike, thank you very much
In Idaho, governor Brad Little who is here today with us as well set a new record for regulatory relief. Good job, Brad. Good, good governor, great governor. Two great governors. The American people know best how to run their own lives. They don’t need Washington bureaucrats controlling their every move and micromanaging their every decision. With each regulation we cut, we’re not only returning the money, and the power to our citizens, we are draining the Washington swamp, and they’re not happy about it. I can tell you that. I think you know that.
The swamp was deep. I just didn’t know how deep, deeper than I thought. Joining us today are a few of the countless Americans who are personally benefiting from our pro-worker reforms. Joe Cambria owns Cambria Truck Center in New Jersey, good state, New Jersey, and it’s been really something that he’s seen firsthand, how our regulation cuts have helped create thousands and thousands of jobs. Joe, please come up, and say a few words. Thank you, Joe.
Thank you Mr. President. Our company, Cambria Truck Center, [inaudible 00:14:48] since 1969, when my grandfather, uncle, and father started the business. In the past three and a half years, the Trump administration has kept its promise to right size regulations. I want to thank you for that, President Trump. Regulatory reform in the energy sector creates jobs, reduces costs for our communities, and puts trucks to work. Streamlined permitting, and creating an environment that allows for efficient construction, and infrastructure repair, and development has the same effect. As a result of these regulatory reforms, our industry has seen record sales of heavy duty trucks, which has been a boon to dealerships like ours, as well as the environment.
When new trucks replace older models, there is an environmental benefit. Current power trains have near zero emissions today, and we’re going to electric, as well as increased safety, like shorter stopping distances, and collision avoidance technology, safer on the road. It has also been nice to hear, “Made in the USA.” again. Bringing manufacturing back to our shores helps our industry, and our entire country. In short, when we cut red tape, we create an economy that is responsible and sensible. We as Americans all win. Thank you, President Trump.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Good job, good job. That was easy. Wasn’t it? Thank you very much, great job. Dr. Amy Johnson is a nurse practitioner in rural Virginia. Amy, please come up and share with us how important expanded health care and telehealth has been for you, and your patients. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. My name is Dr. Amy Johnson, and I’m from Bedford, Virginia. Telehealth deregulation has been of substantial benefit to my colleagues and I over recent months during the COVID-19 crisis. Prior to COVID restrictions, our small local hospital that had limited access to specialty services, used telehealth for neurological, mental health, and palliative care consults. However, telehealth was not something that was used within our primary care setting. Since the deregulation of telehealth restrictions, and expansion of guidelines through CMS, we’ve had the opportunity to integrate video and audio visits as part of our patient care experience.
During the COVID crisis, there were days when almost all of my visits were done via telehealth. This allowed me to continue to care for my patients, including those that were the most vulnerable without risking exposure to illness by bringing them into the office setting. Since we’ve gone back to a more traditional model, we’ve continued to offer telehealth visits, which are a valuable option for home, health, and hospice patients, patients with limited mobility, and patients that remain at high risk. As a farm safety specialist, I can see the use of telehealth expanding to offer more services to our farming population and rural Americans including much needed mental health services, which are unfortunately very sparse.
In addition, access to primary care, and to specialty services can be improved in medically underserved areas with deregulation, and the use of telehealth services by healthcare providers increasing the use of preventative healthcare modalities, allowing for more intensive management of patients with chronic diseases, and decreasing healthcare disparities. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much, great job, thank you. So, that’s been a great help to you, telehealth, it’s been an incredible thing. Great job. Thank you very much. Jim Shelton is a rancher from Arizona who was crushed by the Obama, Biden administration’s ridiculous Waters of the United States rule. It’s been a catastrophic rule, but it’s gone now, which gave bureaucrats power to regulate every puddle on private land or a lake. Jim, please come up, and tell us of your experience, which I know wasn’t a good one, but it’s a good one now, please.
I appreciate the invitation President Trump to be here, and I appreciate the opportunity to thank you for the deregulation in every area, including the Waters of the United States, cutting the red tape, setting us free as private property owners. Thank you. Our ranch has approximately a hundred dry washes flowing across it. These are little washes with no water. The Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency who wrote the Obama 2015 regulations ruled that any dry wash that had more than 12 inches of sand in the bottom became a water of the United States. Hence, we were subject to regulations and oversight from Washington, D.C. and San Francisco. It as outrageous.
I believe that the 2015 rules and regulations were overreaching, caused red tape, and threatened me, and other farmers, ranchers, businessmen, and land owners with the possibility of going to jail, and facing huge fines. Thank you Mr. President for the navigable water protection rule that you’ve promulgated. It has set us free. That heavy hand of government is no longer on our shoulders. Thank you Mr. President. Thank you.
Thank you Jim. Thank you very much, thank you Jim.
That was my honor Jim, and thank you very much. It’s terrible, that you had to suffer for so long, and they took your property away from you, and you want to take care of your property better than any government is going to tell you to take care of your property. You’ll take care of it better, so we don’t have to worry about that. Thank you very much, beautifully said, thank you. I want to just, as president say that I will always fight to defend your rights, and your freedoms. I Will fight very hard for your rights, and your freedoms. The [inaudible 00:22:12] wants to reverse these extraordinary gains and reimpose these disasters regulations. They want to take what we’ve taken off, Jim, and they want to put them back on, and I guess they can do that.
You’ll fight him for a little while, but eventually, you’ll lose, and they want to bury our economy under suffocating, relentless landslides of Washington red tape, like we had before I got here. We must never return to the days of soul crushing regulation that ravaged our cities, devastated our workers, drained our vitality right out of our people, and thoroughly crippled our nation’s prized competitive edge. It’s what we have. We have great, great people. The greatest people in the world. Our entire economy, and our very way of life are threatened by Biden’s plans to transform our nation, and subjugate our communities through the blunt force instrument of federal regulation at a level that you haven’t even seen yet.
Do you think that was bad? You haven’t even seen it yet. They want to go many times what they put you under in the past. Under the Unity platform, Joe Biden published with socialist Bernie Sanders, they are proposing, and this is all in writing. It’s done. They agreed. They are proposing to reenter the job killing unfair Paris Climate Accord, which will cost our country trillions of dollars, trillions and trillions of dollars, and put us in a very, very bad competitive position relative to the world. Not surprising to you, China will be greatly advanced under this ridiculous agreement, so will Russia, so will many other countries. They proposed to mandate…
… other countries. They propose to mandate net zero emissions from all new homes and buildings, skyrocketing the cost of construction and putting the goal of home ownership out of reach for millions. Destroying the look of the home, the beauty of the home, I’m somebody that’s built many homes, many buildings. If you take a look at this, it doesn’t look good. You still have to sell, right? You still have to sell, but they’ve put it out of reach from a cost standpoint, totally out of reach. It’s not practical, it’s not good and it doesn’t work.
They want to eliminate carbon from the US energy industry, which means abolishing all American oil, clean coal and natural gas. No coal, no gas, no oil, nothing to fire our massive plants. The result of this federally mandated shut down would be the wholesale destruction of the entire energy industry and many other industries, the economic evisceration of entire communities and the unfettered offshoring of millions of our best jobs to foreign countries and foreign polluters. Millions and millions of jobs would go, thousands and thousands of countries would be at a level that you’ve never seen. Companies would be disappearing, left, and right, just like they did with NAFTA, which we terminated for the USMCA, which is another beauty that we’ve done, not for now, but another great beauty.
But thousands of companies, plants, factories would be closed. Under this dismal future energy would be unaffordable for the vast majority of Americans and the American dream would be sniffed out so quickly and replaced with a socialist disaster. The Democrats in DC have been in one, two at a much higher level abolish our beautiful and successful suburbs by placing far left Washington bureaucrats in charge of local zoning decisions. They’re absolutely determined to eliminate single family zoning, to destroy the value of houses and communities already built, just as they have in Minneapolis and other locations that you read about today. Your home will go down in value and crime rates will rapidly rise.
Joe Biden and his bosses from the radical left, want to significantly multiply what they’re doing now. And what will be the end result is you will totally destroy the beautiful suburbs. Suburbia will be no longer as we know it. So they want to defund and abolish your police and law enforcement, while at same time destroying our great suburbs. The suburb destruction will end with us. Next week, I will be discussing the AFFH rule, AFFH rule, a disaster. And our plans to protect the suburbs from being obliterated by Washington Democrats, by people on the far left that want to see the suburbs destroyed that don’t care. People have worked all their lives to get into a community and now they’re going to watch it go to hell, not going to happen, not while I’m here.
The Biden/Bernie plan would also use the weapon of federal regulation to tie the hands of our police departments by abolishing cash bail, think of that. Think of that bail, no problem, they killed somebody let them out. Take a look at what’s happening, crime in New York City up 368% from just a short while ago. They got rid of a lot of police and they’re in the process of doing it, a billion dollars. They probably want to abolish… it’s not even believable. When I first heard about it, when you first heard about it, you didn’t think it was real, you didn’t think it was believable. Just like the Green New Deal, how crazy is that? But they’re actually trying to put it into play, it’ll mean the end of this country.
So by getting rid of bail, they are incentivizing jail and prison closures. They want to get rid of prisons, they don’t think anybody should go to prison. Setting loose violent criminals, appointing left-wing social justice prosecutors, like you have in Philadelphia, where people creating and doing the most criminal of acts are let go in many cases immediately and making our wonderful cops, our great, great police, cops, subordinate to distant bureaucrats who have never spent a day in their lives fighting crime.
Unlike the socialists, we believe in the rule of the people, not the rule of the unelected bureaucrats that don’t know what they’re doing. We believe in the dignity of the individual, not the iron grip of the state. Our regulatory reforms are vital, not only to the success of our economy but the strength of our democracy and the survival of Liberty itself. My administration will continue pressing forward until we have made every last vestige of Washington fully, completely, and totally accountable to the citizens of the United States. We are putting our faith in the workers who power our country, the doctors who care for our country, the truckers who sustain our country and the farmers and ranchers who preserve our country in all of its majestic beauty. The American people are the ones who made our nation great and together we will make it greater by far than ever before. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you very much for being with us. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
We must have said something right, I guess we said it absolutely right. It’s about our country, it’s about our country. We want to be strong. We want to respect everybody, but we have to have strong law enforcement and that’s taking place in the areas that we’re responsible for. We want others to call us for help, there’s nothing wrong. Let Chicago call, let Seattle call, we where going into Seattle, all set to go and then they did it themselves. They heard we were coming in and the hands went up, they gave up. And it’s so terrible when you see what’s happening. Minneapolis, we said, “Get the Guard in there.” Three nights, “Get the Guard in, get the guard.” We got the Guard in. The National Guard, they’ve done a fantastic job.
As soon as they showed up, it was like a knife cutting through butter. You saw that, right? After four days of horror, it wasn’t the police’s fault in any of these places, they were told to leave. The police are, generally speaking, they do a great job. They were told to leave, but you so what happened. Minneapolis, grab your gun and run. That’s not what they wanted to do. But the National Guard came in and we did a great job. No problem, after that, did you notice?
We just passed a Statues and Monument executive order and they were going well, now you see that beautiful… Look at it right there it’s so beautiful, the Washington Monument. If they had their choice they’d take it down, and I guarantee you they’d rename it. They want to rename it, they want George Washington out. They won Thomas Jefferson out. They want Abraham Lincoln out. They want abolitionists out. They don’t know what they want, they just want to destroy our country. We’re not going to let it happen, we’re not letting it happen. So I’d now like to ask Vice President Mike Pence to say a few words. Thank you, Mike. Thank you.
Thank you Mr. President. It’s a privilege to be with you today. Thank you for bringing together all these great hardworking Americans, to be able to hear their stories, to be able to reflect on the fact that before the coronavirus hit our country. Thanks to your leadership, we built the strongest economy in the history of the world. In three short years, Mr. President, you kept your promise to the American people. We cut taxes across the board. You fought for free and fair trade. You unleashed American energy and you rolled back regulations to help all Americans. And after 40 years of over regulation, Mr. President, you delivered four years of regulatory freedom.
And in our first three years, the results were extraordinary, businesses large and small created 7 million new jobs, wages rose at their fastest pace. In more than 10 years, 2 million Americans were lifted out of poverty, 7 million Americans lifted off of food stamps and the highest median income in the history of our country.
And Mr. President, as you just reflected a centerpiece of that was lifting red tape off the American people and American free enterprise. I remember those days in the campaign four years ago when you promised that for every new regulation, we’d eliminate two rules off the federal register. But as you just said, Mr. President, for every new regulation put on the books, you actually repealed nearly eight regulations off of the American people and the American economy. And this president has already signed more bills rolling back federal red tape than any president in American history.
They tell us that we’ve saved $220 billion in our economy, and as you said, more than $3,100 for every American household. And beyond all of that, that regulatory form now has America as the largest supplier of oil and natural gas in the world and a net export of energy for the first time in 75 years, that’s what your deregulation agenda delivered.
And today, Mr. President, as we continue to respond to the coronavirus pandemic, at your direction we’re ensuring that our States and our hospitals and our extraordinary health care workers have not only the supplies they need, but the freedom and the flexibility to give every American the same level of care that each one of us would want a family member to have. And as we meet this moment…
…most would want a family member to have. And as we meet this moment, in this pandemic, we’re also opening up America again. It’s extraordinary to think Mr. President, at the height of this pandemic, our economy had lost 22 million jobs, but because of the strong foundation that you laid of less taxes and less regulation, in two short months, May and June saw record breaking job creation. We’ve already added 7 million jobs back to the American economy, and we’re just getting started.
This record job growth, Mr. President is attribute to the resilience of the American people, strength their character. It’s a resilience to your leadership, to the agenda that you advanced in our first three years. But as you said, Mr. President, it’s also a tribute to governors across the country we not only supported your agenda, but also, in more than 30 states, governors actually delivered on that same agenda of less taxes and less regulation. And while I’ve been leading the White House Coronavirus Task Force, it’s also been my honor, Mr. President, to lead the governor’s initiative on regulatory innovation and to work with these extraordinary governors. The truth is, because of your leadership and example of governors across the country have been reducing the burden of regulations at the state level. And that’s what’s contributed to the strong foundation on which we are standing and the American recovery has already begun.
Fortunately, as you mentioned, we have two of those great governors with us today. The first is a governor who in his very first year in office, cut or simplified more than 75% of his state’s regulations and cut the administrative code by 20%. Would you all join me in welcoming Idaho’s great governor, Brad Little to tell us Idaho’s story of deregulation.
Thank you, Mr. Vice president. Mr. President, it’s a great honor to be here. As the Vice President alluded to, our route to rebound is dependent upon the red truck, not the blue truck. What we did in Idaho, where we had the third lowest unemployment, the third fastest income growth of any of the states, particularly for those at the lower end of the income was to match up with your regulatory reform and make more opportunities available, whether it be the spouse of a military veteran that came there, that wanted to have their license in their home state transferred, which today I can proudly say takes us one half day to get that done, so that those people can be there. Whether it’s a small business that wants to break through and remove the regulatory friction that existed there before.
But as this economy changed as a result of what’s taken place, you have to free up all Americans to have that freedom to create a new opportunity. One of the things that we did that we heard about from the good doctor was tele-health. Between CMS, the department and what we did in Idaho, we increased tele-health availability in Idaho by 4000%. Idaho is a rural state. Idaho is a state where accessibility and the cost of healthcare is always an issue. It’s the combination and the teamwork of your administration and what we’ve done that made that available to where we will rebound in Idaho. And thank you very much, Mr. President.
Thank you very much, Brad. Thank you. Thank you, Brad.
Thank you, Governor Little. And finally, Mr. President allow me to introduce the governor who told us in December, when you kicked off the governor’s initiative on regulatory innovation, that in his first year in office, his administration modified or rolled back 239 different regulations in over 100 professions. He is making sure that Alaska is open for business and prospering with less taxes and less regulation. Join me in welcoming Alaska’s great governor, Mike Dunleavy.
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And thank you Mr. President for having us here today. What you’ve done here for us, for governors and the people of this great country and Alaska, we are part of the great country by the way, Mr. President, you know that.
You are.
The president has been up in our state, we’ve met at least eight times. And when he stops over in Anchorage, Alaska on his trips, he always wants to meet. And the first thing he says is, “Can we meet the troops? And what do you need in the state of Alaska?” This is a small state population-wise, way up North, but this President sees the importance of that state and its people. This is really about hope, Mr. President, restoring hope and opportunity. And this is what you’ve done. This is really about the art of the possibility. As the previous Governor Little said, what you’ve done is historic, and it’s going to continue to be historic.
In Alaska, for example, we have communities that are 500, 600 miles off the road system. The tele-health regulations that have been put in place now are not only going to be good for medicine, but they’re going to save lives as a result of the work that you and your team have done. We look at our resource development, we look at businesses, small and big, and you’ve restored. You’ve renewed hope that it is possible to achieve the American dream. These regulations over the past 40 years have really, in many respects, killed the American dream. As you said, strangled the American dream. And in the end, really what this comes down to is how does it impact the individual American, the individual Alaska, in my case.
I want to tell you, what you’ve done is, when the landowner goes and decides that they want to do a little landscaping on their property, do they have to look over their shoulder and wonder if big government is watching them? Can they do what they need to do on their private property? You’ve restored the hope that they can, that they can realize the American dream. And this goes for our corporations. This goes for our entities, our nonprofit entities, this goes for our native corporations in Alaska. What you’ve done is restored hope and opportunity. And we’re looking forward to a more years of this opportunity, Mr. President so thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you. We have many exciting things that we’ll be announcing over the next eight weeks I would say. Things that nobody has even contemplated, thought about, thought possible and things that we’re going to get done and we have gotten done. We’ve started in most cases, but it’s going to be a very exciting eight weeks. A eight weeks, I think Mike, we can honestly say nobody’s ever going to see eight weeks like we’re going to have, because we really have. We’re taking on immigration, taking on education, we’re taking on so many aspects of things that people were hopelessly tied up in knots in Congress. They’ve been working on some of these things for 25, 30 years, wasn’t happening.
But you’ll see levels of detail and you’ll see levels of thought that a lot of people believed very strongly we didn’t have in this country. We’re going to get things done. We’re going to get things done that they’ve wanted to see done for a long, long time. I think we’ll start sometime on Tuesday. We’ll be discussing our one plan on suburbia, but that’s one of many, many different plans. Then we’re going into the immigration, the world of immigration. The world of education. We’re going into the world of healthcare, very complete healthcare. And we have a lot of very exciting things to discuss, but cutting of regulation has been really something that I felt we could do and we could do fairly easily. Nothing’s easy in this country.
We had statutory requirements where we’d do phase one and then we’d have to wait 90 days, we’d do phase two and we’d have to wait 60 days. We do phase three and we said, let’s do phase four, “Sir, I’m sorry, you have to wait one year.” But we were able to do things that nobody has ever been able to do or even close on deregulation. And these trucks, this really is a great, a great little example. I don’t know who thought of this idea, but it’s actually quite simple and quite good. Is that Brooke? Quite simple and quite good. I don’t love having that big sucker hanging over my head. I want to get out of here as fast as possible, but I do want to thank you all incredible people. You’ve done an incredible job. And to the speakers, please. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Brad.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Great honor. Please, thank you. Sit down, please. It’s great to be with you. Great company and wonderful location. Quick flight. It’s in and out, but we have some big things to say. Carol, I want to thank you also for doing such an incredible job at this company. I look at your numbers and I’m very jealous. A lot of people are very jealous. But I’m delighted to be back in Atlanta, Georgia, special place. The hometown of one of the most amazing companies on earth, UPS. They never fail. The dedicated men and women of UPS are an inspiration to us all. In the face of every challenge, you always come through for your fellow citizens. Would you say that’s correct? I say it’s correct.
Let me start by expressing my gratitude to every driver, worker, and employee who has contributed to this great success and continue to deliver for America throughout our battle against the China virus, it goes by many different names, about 21 that I can figure. We maybe we’ll use a different one every time we hit it, but whatever it is, it was a terrible thing and it could have been stopped and it should have been stopped right where it started in China. Together, we will defeat this virus and emerge stronger than ever before. We’re here today to celebrate a historic breakthrough that will transform the lives of workers and families all across our nation.
For decades, the single biggest obstacle to building a modern transportation system has been the mountains and mountains of bureaucratic red tape in Washington, DC. Before I took off, it’s reviews for highways ballooned to an average of nearly 750 pages in length, and they were the good ones, they were the short ones. And I know because I was in business for a long time and I had to go through a process that was so ridiculous. It was so ridiculous. We went through a process for building buildings usually, it would take forever. By the time you start building, the market changed. You said, “The market was good when we started, now the market’s lousy.” So you’d say, “To hell with it. We won’t build.”
Sometimes you’d start building and you’d say, “That was a mistake.” But we went through years and years of litigation and tumult, and it was just not good, but you’d go through it. To an even greater extent, the maze like approval process represented lobbyists that were very rich. They were making a lot of money. I remember I’d go up to Albany, New York and I’d see my lobbyists up there. I’d say, “What are you doing here?” I knew what they were doing. They were trying to make it more difficult so you had to hire them for more and more work, spend millions and millions of dollars for nothing. But too often, they caused massive delays on top of everything else. And that way they got their fees over a longer period of time.
It’s one of the reasons why, for example, the average Atlanta driver spends an incredible 77 hours in traffic during a short period of time. But all of that ends today. We’re doing something very dramatic. We just completed an unprecedented, I don’t want to say it’s absolutely unprecedented, top to bottom overhaul should have been done years ago of the infrastructure approval process. This approval process that has cost trillions of dollars over the years for our country and delays like you wouldn’t believe. This is a truly historic breakthrough, which means better roads, bridges, tunnels, and highways for every UPS driver and every citizen all across our land.
Together we’re reclaiming America’s proud heritage as a nation of builders and a nation that can get things done. Because with these horrible roadblocks that were put in front of us, you couldn’t get it done. No matter how good you were, you couldn’t get it done. You’d wait and wait. You’d go to the next step. You say you can’t start the next step until you finish the first. Joining us for this special occasion are Council of Environmental Quality chairman, Mary Neumayr. Where’s Mary? Mary. Thank you, Mary. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mary. Good. Secretary of transportation, a very special woman, a great woman, somebody that has done an incredible job, Elaine Chao. Elaine.
And she was very much instrumental in getting this done. And when Elaine speaks, we all listen, but she was very much instrumental. Secretary of agriculture, a man who has done a fantastic job for our farmers and ranchers, Sonny Perdue. Sonny. I learned more about farming from Sonny Purdue than all of these consultants that came in. I learned more in a half an hour from that man right there. We had a great call today with the farmers too. Great call. They’re doing very well. A lot of good things have happened, right Sonny? A lot of things have happened. They were targeted by China. They were targeted by others. We just signed the USMCA, which is phenomenal for our country and our farmers. Got rid of one of the worst trade deals in history, NAFTA.
One of the worst trade deals ever, how anybody could have signed it, but worse, how anybody could have let it run for 25 years or whatever it was. They just took advantage of us. We had 60,000 empty plants and factories in our country by the time that mess got finished. So we just signed a great deal, USMCA. It’s the largest trade deal ever made, Mexico, Canada, the largest ever made. I know Sonny would like me to thank the UPS, all of the drivers and workers for all of the help in delivering nearly 30 million meals to rural children throughout the country for our Meals-to-You program. Meals-to-You, you know what that is? Meals-to-You. You do, right?
We’re also pleased to be joined by a great senator, somebody that’s done a phenomenal job. And I can tell you, look, he’s a friend of mine, so I’m a little prejudiced, but he’s a man that’s respected by everybody on both sides of the US Senate. He works hard. He loves your state. And I always say, does David get the kind of recognition that he deserves? Because he is a very, very special man. David Perdue, where is David? David, thank you. And a woman who’s come in and done a great job. And she’s been so supportive of me and the agenda, and a good person, a good woman with her husband who’s a terrific man, Senator Kelly Loeffler. Thank you very much. Thank you, Kelly. Great job, Kelly.
And warriors, these are warriors. These people fought for us through thick and thin, through very, very unfair territory. We were treated terribly and they came in and they turned out to be tougher than the other side by a lot. And I just want to introduce representatives Rick Allen, Rick. Thanks, Rick. The great Buddy Carter. Buddy. An incredible spokesman, an incredible man and friend, Doug Collins. Doug. Thank you, Doug. Great job, Doug. Drew Ferguson. Drew. Thank you very much, Drew. Jody Hice. Jody. Thank you, Jody. Great job, Jody. And Barry Loudermilk. Barry, thank you very much. And also two people, friends of mine. They’ll be there soon in my opinion because they have to, because we need all the help we can get in Washington.
Karen Handel. Karen, thank you very much. Thank you, Karen. And Rich McCormick. Rich, thank you. They’ll be there soon I hope. I hope. We need them. We need them. Get them in there. Thank you as well to a man who I became very good friends with, a man who was running against somebody that was unbeatable, running against a superstar. I said, “Oh, she’s a superstar. Wow.” Can you beat superstars? I don’t think so, but he figured out how to be a superstar. And I don’t know if she’s still a superstar, Brian. I’m not sure. I’m not sure. I don’t think so. I don’t know. Superstars don’t lose. Do they? Governor Brian Kemp. I’ll tell you, what a warrior he is. He’s tough. He’s tough and he’s done a great job.
You’ve done a great job in every aspect of running this incredible state. And I’ve always been there for you. He was saying when we met at the plane, “Everything we’ve needed in Georgia, you’ve been there for,” and that’s right. That’s right. Perhaps more important than Brian, however, right? Far more important is Georgia first lady, Marty Kemp. Thank you very much, Marty. And watch please those mail-in ballots. You’re going to watch that for me because they have a lot of problems all over the country. They just had Paterson, New Jersey where massive percentages of the vote was a fraud. Mail-in ballots, be careful. Be careful. They would understand because they deliver.
In fact, I’m going to have to be very nice to UPS. UPS, I love you, Carol, wherever you are, Carol. I love you, Carol. Now it’s very bad what’s going on with mail-in ballots. Okay? As differentiated from absentee ballots where you have to go and you go through a process because you can’t be there for some reason, but the mail-in ballots is going to be, they’re going to be rigged. They’re going to be a terrible situation. And you have to be careful in Georgia, but you have to be careful everywhere where they’re doing it. We went through a First World War and a Second World War and people went to vote. Now they’re saying, “Let’s use this-”
Or people went to vote. Now they’re saying let’s use this as a chance not to vote. And there’s been tremendous corruption, tremendous corruption on mail-in ballots. So absentee ballot, great, mail-in ballot, absolutely no good. It makes no sense. A governor sends out millions of ballots all over the place. They don’t know where they’re going. They’re going to wherever. I have a friend who got one for his daughter, another one for his daughter, and then a second one for the first daughter. They didn’t know what to do with them. I had another friend, a really wonderful guy who lost his son seven years ago, Robert, his son, Robert, and his son was sent a mail-in ballot. He called me, he said, “What do I do? I just got a mail-in ballot for Robert? Robert died seven years ago.” So it’s a terrible situation if they decide to use it. And we’ll see what happens. There’s a lot of litigation, a lot of court cases right now.
And it makes sense. Just think of it. Millions of ballots. In California, they’re sending out millions of ballots. They don’t even know who. Maybe they know too well who they’re sending them to. And maybe it’s the people that don’t get it. Maybe it’s an area of Republicans or Democrats that don’t happen to get any ballots. We’ve had a lot of problems. Just take a look at what’s gone on over the last month and take a look at Patterson, New Jersey. Small city in New Jersey. I think they said something like 20% of the ballots were corrupted or something happened with them. 20%. And even in the 2016 election, 1% are in question. But I don’t want to talk about that one because I won. So I don’t want anyone going back and looking, all right? I’m not going to talk about 2016. That was the greatest election.
And now we have to do something very important. We have to keep it going or this country will be in big, big trouble. I want to thank also for being here, Georgia Attorney General, Chris Carr. You’re the one Chris. Watch that Chris, will you? Williams. You’re going to watch that, Chris, please, okay? You got to speak to the man that handles it. You know what I’m talking about. You got to do it. Thank you, Chris. It’s in good hands. Superintendent Richard Woods. Richard, thank you very much. Thank you. And members of the Georgia Public Service Commission and the State Senate and House Transportation Committee. We’ve got a lot of politicians in this room. And really good luck to Karen and to Rich. Go out and go get them. You’re great people. Today’s action is part of my administration’s fierce commitment to slashing the web of needless bureaucracy that is holding back our citizens. I’ve been wanting to do this from day one. Then we started on day one, literally on day one, but it takes a long time. You have statutory requirements. You have a lot of different roadblocks, even to changing it. But the change you’ll be hearing about in a minute, and it’s one of the biggest things we can be doing for our country. The last administration increased the Federal Register by 16,000 pages of job-killing regulations. Under my administration, we have cut the Federal Register by nearly 25,000 pages, more than any president in history, whether it’s four years, eight years or one case more.
And we, frankly, this I would think is maybe the biggest of all. We did the U.S. Waters. You saw that? The U.S. Waters Act? That was a big one. That was a big one. I thought I was going to take a lot of heat when I did that, and instead, it was just the opposite. People came up, grown men that had never cried even when they were a baby, they were standing behind me when I signed that bill at the White House, and they were crying. They were crying because we gave their life back to them. That took their life away. It took their livelihood away. It was a big, big moment, but this is a big moment today, too. Probably, possibly equally as big.
Today’s action completely modernizes the environmental review process under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. We are cutting the federal permitting timeline from a staggering 10 years, 15 years, 18 years, 21 years. You know the story. You’ve seen it. Projects that start out, a young guy heads the project. By the time it gets approved or disapproved, in many cases, disapproved, usually disapproved, he’s getting ready to retire. Say, “What do you do for your life?” “I worked on one project. We didn’t get it through in the end.” Now we won’t get certain projects through for environmental reasons. They have to be environmentally sound, but you know what? We’re going to know in a year. We’re going to know in a year and a half. We’re not going to know in 20 years.
So we’re cutting the federal permitting timeline for a major project from up to 20 years or more, hard to believe, down to two years or less. So we have it down to about two years right now, Elaine, and I think two years or less, and our goal is one year. And you may get disapproved. They may vote at the end. They didn’t like something environmentally or safety-wise, and I’m all for that. But you’re not going to devote a lifetime to doing a project that doesn’t get approved or that gets approved. And oftentimes when it gets approved, it comes in at 10, 20, 30 times the cost.
There’s a highway in a certain state, short road, not even a highway, I guess, more of a roadway. And they put it in, it was a straight line from point to point. By the time they finished it 18 years later, it was this. It cost tens of times, it cost many, many, many times more than the original. It’s a dangerous roadway because there’s turns. You got to be in good shape. You got to be wide awake to make those turns. You got to see those things. You have to see the guard rails, boom. They had a simple straight roadway and now they build it and they end up… It took 17 years to get it approved. Ended up costing many, many times what the original estimates were, and it’s no good. It’s not good.
Under the last administration, a mere 7% of reviews for federal highways were processed within two years. Now what we’re doing is, the two years won’t be the exception, it will be the rule. So what we’re doing is we’re going to have that coming down at a much steeper rate. This will reduce approval times for highways alone by at least 70%. But the 70% is a very unambitious number because the number’s going to be actually much lower than that. At the heart of the reforms is the One Federal Decision Policy. It really spells it out when you hear that name. One Federal Decision. Before, applicants for infrastructure permits were forced to spend years and years navigating a labyrinth of federal agencies, and every single one had the power to stop a project.
Anytime you went to an agency, they had a power to stop it. And it would stop the project. Not only stop it, right in its tracks, it would stop it. With our reforms, it would be one quick and fair decision. We’re going to give every project a clear answer, yes or no. Yes or no. The two-year process where just to submit is two years is not acceptable. It’s going to be a very quick yes or no after study, but the studies are going to go quickly, and they’re going to go simultaneously.
So if you’re in numerous agencies, you’re all going at the same time instead of waiting for one, for two, for three. And oftentimes you’d go through one, it would take you six months, and then you have to wait 90 days, and then you have a review period, and then you start the second one. And now you go for another four months, and then you wait 90 days, and you have a review period. And sometimes you had to go through nine, 10, 12 different agencies. So even if you did absolute rapid, it was many, many years before you could even think about starting it.
We have up here, by the way, that’s a chart of the old system and the new system. And I think the new system is better. I think it’s better not only in time. I think it’s better in terms of the process. And I think it’s better in terms of the importance from an environmental and a safety standpoint. But take a look at that. This is what you had to go through. In fact, it was much more dramatic when I first came up with this about a year ago. We took that and we rolled it out. It was so dramatic, and it just kept going and going. So the difference is that, and many of those steps you had to wait before you could even think about going to the next one, and you had to get full approvals. Any one of those colors, where there was a problem or a rejection, meant it was dead. And now you go through this very simple but very comprehensive solution. That’s a beautiful thing. Especially if you understand construction and building and other things beyond building like I do.
At the same time, we’ll maintain America’s Gold Standard Environmental Protections. The United States will continue to have among the very cleanest air and cleanest water on earth, which we do now. We have the cleanest that we’ve ever had, ever meaning, I guess, in the last 40 years. I assume that 200 years ago was cleaner. I can imagine it was very clean a couple of hundred years ago, Brian, right?
That’s why I’m very careful with the fake news media, because if I say that, “We have the cleanest water we’ve ever had,” they said, “What about 200 years ago before anybody touched the lake? When the Lake was a beautiful virgin lake. Nobody ever touched it.” They said, “Yeah, they got me on that one,” don’t they, huh? So now I’ve become extremely careful. So I say probably they’re talking about 35, 40 years, something like that. If it’s any different from that, media, we will… Look at all those people back there. Any different than that, we will report to you. We will make an amendment. We’ll never make a correction because I don’t like doing that.
One of the first projects accelerated by these reforms will be the planned expansion of I-75 right here in Georgia. That’s in honor of your wife, in honor of Marty. Okay? That’s in honor of Marty. They’ve been looking to do that for many years, right? But the governor is going to get it done. This expansion will add 77 new lane miles of commercial vehicles like those driven by UPS, saving drivers countless hundreds of hours a year. With us today is Julian [Palk 00:22:03], a teamster, I know the teamsters very well, at UPS who drives this route often. Julian, please come up and tell your story, please. Thank you.
Thanks, Julian.
Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Julian Polk. It’s a great honor to be in front of you. I’m especially grateful for my wife being here with me today of 14 years. I spent the first 16 years of my career driving a package car going from house to house. But in my last three years, I’ve been in the big rigs, mostly on 75. And throughout 75, we have approximately 765 trucks in Metro, Atlanta. 64 of those travel from McDonough to Macon, Georgia, which is about a hundred miles round trip. With the congestion and all of that, it kind of makes it to where it’s hard to get there and create all the time commits. Every time I’ve loaded my truck, whether it was medical equipment, a gift to someone’s loved one, that time in transit was very important.
With this infrastructure, it’s very important to me and all of my fellow UPSers because the investment in our roads and bridges help reduce congestion and open up the bottlenecks, which makes it easier to get the packages to where they need to go. More importantly, safe for drivers like myself, because we all know the most important stop of the day is when I get back home to her and my two beautiful kids. Thank you. 14 years ago at my local hub in Forest Park, with the support of my management team, I started the corporate health and safety process. Throughout that team, we were able to lower the accidents and injuries, which we know accidents on the road slows down time in transit. Since then, we’ve stopped all of that or most of it. I’d like to close by saying thank you to my wife for being here, to everyone that has supported me, especially my division manager, Tom Rosilio. He has supported me in my career and for the great opportunity to be here today.
Fantastic job. Thank you, Julian. But Julian, it looks like you’re attributing a lot of your success to your wife. Is that a correct statement?
Absolutely.
Would you please stand up? So lovely. Thank you. That’s great. Great job. You’re proud of the job he just did, I think. Huh? Pretty good. He’ll be running for office next week. Watch. Great job, Julian. Thank you. I’d like to invite UPS’ vice president of corporate transportation, Bill Taylor, up to say a few words. Please, Bill.
Thank you, Bill. Thank you very much.
Good afternoon. Now, thank you for visiting the UPS gateway President Trump. Thank you very much. I am so proud to be a 37 year veteran of this great company. I started my UPS career as a part time hourly employee when I was still in school, back in 1983. When I graduated from college, I went into management and throughout my career, I’ve had the opportunity to work in our airline, in our freight transportation operations, and also in our package delivery operations throughout the United States. I’m now preparing to retire. When I think about UPS, all of us at UPS and is a great example. All of us that UPS worked through some very tough times through our careers, whether it’s hurricanes and natural disasters or some type of national event like 9/11, and now COVID-19, but all of us that UPS also look at that as a great opportunity to serve this great country and help bring the country through and remedy those tough situations.
You look at project Airbridge under the Trump administration and working directly with FEMA. Another great example. From a UPS standpoint, we are all tremendously proud to help deliver life saving supplies, wherever and whenever they are needed. From an infrastructure standpoint, I know firsthand that improvements in our infrastructure will be a tremendous benefit to not only our customers, but also the communities that we serve. But when I think about UPS, I know how strong our technology is. I know how strong our flexible multimodal transportation network is. And I know all UPSers are dedicated to making a difference and helping bring America forward. As I think about the ending my career, I am very grateful to retire with a strong pension plan. I hope the same for all essential workers who have a pension plan currently hung up, that they can enjoy the same when their work is over. Thank you, UPS for a wonderful career and the great opportunity to work with so many wonderful people through the years to help make a difference. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Bill and good luck. Carol, I don’t think I’d let him retire. He’s got about 30 years left in him at UPS. Can’t believe you’re retiring. That’s terrible. You want to retire or do you want to stay because they’ll renew you for 25 years. You’ve got it. You’ve done a fantastic job. Thank you very much. Thank you, Bill. Really great job. Here as well as the commissioner of Georgia Department of Transportation, Russell McMurry. Russell, please come up and say a few words. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it was an honor for me to meet with you in Washington, DC at the USDOT with Secretary Elaine Chao and some other state DOT commissioners from around the nation. For us to share with you this long burdensome, often bureaucratic process and you sat and listened to us with great detail that day. At the end of that meeting, too, I might add that the President told us, the DOT commissioners there in the room that he was going to streamline the environmental process, cut the red tape and make sure that the environment is protected, number one. Today is a full circle day for me, Mr. President, that here we are today with the President and the Trump administration rolling out yet another, not the first, but another environmental process improvement that will make life much easier for people like us at the Department’s of Transportation’s across the nation to deliver infrastructure projects like the I-75 commercial vehicle lanes to move that freight out of Savannah to Atlanta and beyond, while providing a safe corridor for the many families that travel on I-75.
Now, I certainly want to acknowledge someone else that is laser focused on streamlining government and cutting red tape and that’s our governor, Brian Kemp. Governor, I appreciate your focus to transportation and infrastructure. It certainly makes my life a lot easier so thank you. Now, finally, I’d just like to recognize somebody else and the President acknowledged her earlier, but the leadership exemplified by Secretary Elaine Chao at the USDOT is exceptional. We have never experienced the kind of cooperation … We at the Georgia’s DOT has never experienced this type of cooperation from your administration, Mr. President, that we enjoyed today. Thank you for your leadership and thank you for the partnership you share, not only with Georgia, but all the states. Mr. President, thank you for making this happen. Thank you.
And Russell said that so well because there have been many steps that we’ve made over the course of the last three years that allowed us to get to this big, giant step. This is a big deal, and this is front page all over this country. Frankly, nobody realizes what it means other than the people that are in this room and others that do what you do, but the fact is, this is something that nobody thought was possible. But it was all those little steps, Russell, that allowed us to get to this step bureaucratically and then every other way. Thank you very much and you’ve done a great job. Appreciate it. We’re also joined by Janell King, a small business owner here in Atlanta. Janell, please come up and say a few words, please.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Governor Kemp. And thank you UPS for delivering all my shoes on time. I am Janell King. Together, my husband Kelvin King, and I he’s the one that really goes through all of this. I serve as VP of External Affairs with Osprey Management, which is such an honor. We have 10 employees, by which one of them received their United States citizenship this morning, so that’s awesome. We have over 150 subcontractors and we have a number of projects that are taking place throughout the state. Our ability to harness opportunities and supply our clients with on time projects promptly is extremely important. Several have proposed fantastic ideas and aid to developing new forms of commuting. Red tape and restrictions in place have hindered these ideas and due to extensive permitting and impact studies that increase timelines.
Well, Mr. President, you have shown what leadership can do when you reform the old way of doing things. Infrastructure reform and building new roads faster will not only help our company to achieve our project goals, but they will help the entire state, both economically and socially. I would like to personally thank you for placing the needs of the constituents in the forefront of your list and addressing our infrastructure concerns and our governor and first lady for working along with you until we can get this done and to our senators; Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Leffler for always being available as well. Thank you so much.
Thank you very much. Great job. Great job. And look how proud your husband is of you. He had that camera up. That camera wasn’t moving down, I’ll tell you. He captured every word…
Camera up, that camera wasn’t moving down, I tell you. He captured every word. That’s great. Beautiful family. Thank you very much. One of the things I’ll tell you that the Governor and I are working on, a couple of projects that are going to be big surprises for you, big ones, big projects that you’ve been talking about for 20 years I guess in one case. So we’ll get them done. I’m sure we’ll get them done. And I want to thank you all. Great presentations. Thank you all very much.
My administration is also moving full speed ahead on improving the Port of Savannah, which is now the largest agriculture exporting port in the entire United States, largest in the country. As many of you know, this project faced 20 years of unnecessary delays. This has been going on for years. When they came to me and the Governor said, “Can you help us with this? I said, “We’ll help you with it. What’s the story?” It’s been going on for years and years. They’ve been talking about it. Nothing ever happened. It was also eight years of additional bureaucratic reviews, just reviews. This isn’t like, “Oh, gee, let’s start digging.” This is paperwork. People made a lot of money. It’s a terrible thing. It just gets caught up like so many other places. But it’s all ending now.
Bureaucratic reviews under the Obama-Biden administration have been a disaster. And they got worse. But I’m proud to report that for three straight years under my administration, we’ve delivered full funding for the Port of Savannah and we’re on track to complete the project in a very short period of time. It’s going to be complete. In honor of the Governor. In honor of the Governor and Marty. Good. Congratulations. That was a great job. They’ve been fighting for that one for a long time. You got it done. We want a governor that gets it done. Even though he calls me all the time, “Can we get it done?” I wish he wouldn’t call so much. But you know, that’s the sign of a good governor, right? When you think, right? Stand up, please. That’s a sign of a governor. I like the ones that don’t call, Brian, where they just leave me alone. But their project never happens. Great job you do, great job.
We want the United States to compete and win in the 21st century. And that means we will not allow our nation to be hamstrung by wasteful Washington regulations. We’re the nation that built the Golden Gate Bridge in four years, the Hoover Dam in five years. And a lot of people don’t understand this, but it’s so true, we built the Empire State Building and less than a year. Can you imagine that? The Biden administration, our past vice president, opposes, think of this, all of our permitting reforms, and wants to increase the length of the permitting process. Think of this, this is in his Bernie Sanders deal. Biden is happy to tie up projects in red tape, and we want to get things built. But they want to increase the length. So they want to increase it from that to much longer. Unbelievable.
Biden wants to massively re-regulate the energy economy, rejoin the Paris Climate Accord, which would kill our energy totally. And you’d have to close 25% of your businesses and kill oil and gas development. They still haven’t explained what they’re going to do to power our great plants and factories. But at some point, I’m sure they will. We’ll learn that from AOC, who’s in charge of energy. She’s in charge, along with Bernie. It’s AOC and Bernie are in charge of energy. I don’t think Texas is too happy about that. What do you think? You think we’ll call up the governor, Governor Abbott, great governor. We’ll ask, “How do you like that Governor?” I didn’t want to waste the phone call because I would know how he felt.
And Biden wants to hold hostage billions in federal surface transportation grants for states and localities, unless the states and local suburban communities abolish single family zoning rules. So they want low income housing to be built in communities that frankly, they don’t want it. They don’t want it. Hasn’t worked out. And we’re terminating that as you know. I announced it two weeks ago. We’re going to be eliminating that rule. It’s a crazy rule and it’s very unfair to a lot of people. A lot of people are very unhappy.
It should not take 10 years or more just to get approval for a simple stretch of road. Special interests in Washington will never begin, they will never begin to let you breathe. That’s not their business. Their business is the opposite. And we will do vetoes wherever necessary in order to make sure everything happens and happens quickly. We’re not giving a veto for one thing, America’s future. There will never be a veto for America’s future. So my goal, my mission, and my commitment to each of you is very simple. America’s infrastructure will be the envy of the entire world as it was many, many years ago. We built the interstate highway system during the Eisenhower administration, a long time ago. And since then it’s gotten worse and worse and worse and more bureaucratic and more bureaucratic. And now we’re freeing up and we’re going back probably to around 1952. We’re going back to a long time ago. And again, you do have to get permits. We want safety. We want to be totally involved with the environment. We want our environment to be better than it would be the other way, the long way. But you’re going to get your answers quickly. One way or the other, you’re going to get those answers very quickly. And if the answer is a big, beautiful, yes, you’re going to start construction immediately. You’re not going to wait around for 10, 12, and 20 years.
Our bridges, tunnels, freeways, and airports will no longer be the site of shame, but they’ll be a source of pride. From coast to coast, town to town, we’re constructing new roads, railways, runways, and waterways. You know, we had many cases where they’ll get federal funding to build a highway, then it’ll take them forever to get the approval. And by the time they have it approved, they need 10 times more money. They come back to the federal government. And the government would usually turn them down. They’d say that wasn’t the deal. But sometimes they’d just paid 10 times more. We’re not going to do that anymore.
We’re linking our cities with gleaming highways and blazing fast broadwalk. And if you think, when you look at the farmers of this country, what they’ve gone through with the broadband, broadband is so bad in the middle section, that beautiful middle section of our country, our farmers, our ranches are hurt very badly. So we’re getting fast broadband networks, and we’re carving them out, and towering, beautiful new monuments to American greatness. And that’s what they will be. But our farmers have to be thought of also. Nobody thought of our farmers. Our farmers are incredible and they’re doing an incredible job, doing an incredible job. So for the farmers out there, broadband, here we come. Broadband, they’ve been trying to get it for a long time, many years.
Together, we’re building our incredible future with American hands, American heart, and American steel. As your president, I’m more determined than ever that America’s infrastructure will be second to none. And in Georgia, you’re going to have an infrastructure and you’re going to have some projects announced that almost all of the people in this room do not know about. Most people have given up on them, Brian. I think they’ve given up, they gave up with the rest of them. But we have some things planned in Georgia that’ll be really incredible. And everybody’s going to want it. Both Democrat, by the way, and Republican. The problem is nobody was able to get it done. We get it done. One thing I know, I know how to get things done.
And under this administration, we will always put America first. We were putting other countries first. Now we’re putting America first. So I want to thank everybody for being here. I want to thank and congratulate UPS on having a great run, many years, but a great run recently. You’ve done a fantastic job, whether it’s Sky Bridge or anything else that we’ve done with you, you’ve been fantastic. I really appreciate it. But especially I appreciate a state called Georgia. It’s a special place. It’s a great place. And it’s an honor to be with you. And it’s an honor, this is where I’m announcing, this is good for the whole country. Not only Georgia, this is for the whole country, but I’m announcing it in Georgia because we have some great things planned for you. You are special people. Mr. Governor, thank you very much. Marty, thank you very much. Everybody, thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much, everybody. Have a good time.
Well thank you very much please. Great honor to be with you in the beautiful Rose Garden on a sweltering day but I do want to thank you all for being here as we proudly launch the White House Hispanic Prosperity Initiative. Very exciting. Very exciting.
Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you. With this very exciting new effort, we will deliver a future of greater promise, opportunity and freedom for our nation’s really it’s a treasure. You are a treasure. The Hispanic-Americans and the Hispanic-American community is a treasure. Thank you.
We’re thrilled to be joined today by Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. Thank you Betsy, thank you. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, thank you Wilbur. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson, thank you Ben. Small Business Administrator Jovita Carranza. Thank you. Jovita. Very popular, Jovita, and Representative Mike Garcia. Good, thank you. Thank you. Congratulations Mike. That was a big win. Biggest in 22 years they say. First time in 22 years.
That’s a good one. Well you got something special going, right? Thank you Mike. Great job. Yesterday I was delighted to host my friend President Lopez Obrador of Mexico here in the White House in a firm but close and continued friendship between the United States and Mexico. It’s never been better. The executive order that I will sign in a few moments will expand our efforts across all the federal government to deliver educational and economic opportunity for Hispanic-Americans.
At the heart of our strategy to create a prosperous future for every Hispanic-American as well as all Americans is a great family of education. We are going to have a tremendous program and we have and you know we’re a believer in choice, choice. The other folks don’t believe in choice and choice is a great civil rights issue and maybe the great one of our times.
I’m going to fight to ensure that every Hispanic-American parent has the freedom and the right to send your child to the public, private, charter, faith-based, magnet, home, or independent school of your choice and school choice is an incredible issue in many ways. It’s a political issue, I agree. Most people agree with us. The smart ones definitely agree with us but it’s also a moral issue and it really is a fundamental issue of civil rights. No American student should ever be trapped in a failing government school which has happened so often for so many years. It’s one of the problems you see when you see these cities going up in flame.
One of the most successful educational models is the charter school which has been under unceasing attack from the radical left. Charter schools, charter schools have been incredible, but they’re under attack and you know why they’re under attack. More than one million Hispanic-American children currently attend charter schools and nearly one in three charter school students is Hispanic-American. I’m proud that under my administration, we’ve delivered over $1.5 billion for public charter schools. That’s a record.
As long as I’m president I will never let your charter schools be taken away from you, be taken down. I will never let you down. I will never let Hispanic-American or any American down. That I can tell you.
Under our leadership, the Hispanic-American high school graduation rate has reached an all-time high in the history of our country and the dropout rate has reached an all-time low in the history of our country. We have also delivered a $1 billion grant for minority-serving institutions including Hispanic-serving institutions of higher learning. Our new Hispanic Prosperity Initiative will also expand access to trade school, something that’s been really badly missing, trade schools. So important. Work-based learning and vocational education, so important. Vocational. When I was young, growing up, I used to see vocational school, Edison Vocational School. That meant people with a great talent but a talent different than history and math and other things but they had the same talent or far greater than many of the A students that studied other things. Vocational school. Great people, great talent, and they do very well, they do very well.
Through our pledge to the American worker, we have already made available 16 million apprenticeships and training opportunities to the jobs of tomorrow. To bring jobs and prosperity to our most distressed communities, we created nearly 9,000 opportunity zones. That’s been a great success, a tremendous. Tim Scott of South Carolina has helped us so much. Which have already brought nearly $100 billion in investment to neighborhoods where millions of Hispanic-Americans live and you see it, so many of you already today, in speaking with you, you said what a difference that made. Before the plague from China came in, you know what that is, it’s the China virus. Before it came in and hit us, we achieved the lowest Hispanic-American unemployment rate and the lowest poverty rate ever recorded. History of our country ever recorded and we’re getting back to it very quickly. We achieved the highest ever incomes for Hispanic-Americans and many other American groups and communities. We built the greatest economy in history, not only for our country but for the world. We were number one by far. China had the worst year in 67 years. They weren’t happy with what was going. They were going in the wrong direction, and then the plague came in.
Together, we will do it again and we will do it very quickly and we’re already doing it. We will achieve a swift, full and complete recovery for Hispanic-Americans and the Hispanic-American community and we’re doing it very, very rapidly. Our strategy focuses on sheltering the most vulnerable, including older Americans and nursing home residents while allowing those at lower risk such as young and healthy children in many cases, the immune system is so powerful, so strong, but the young and the healthy to safely return to work and to school. We have to open our schools. Open our schools. Stop this nonsense. We open our schools. Germany, Norway, so many countries right now. They’re opened, the schools are open and they’re doing just fine and they’re opening in the fall. So we have to get our schools open. Denmark, Sweden. We have to get our schools open and stop this political nonsense and it’s only political nonsense. It’s politics. They don’t want to open because they think it will help them on November 3. I think it’s going to hurt them on November 3. Open your schools.
At the same time, we’re unleashing the scientific brilliance of our people. We have multiple effective therapies in use already with more being developed and you have to see some of them. The results are looking incredible and we were on track to produce a vaccine in record time and very, very soon. It’s going to be announced I believe very, very soon. So we have therapies and we have vaccines. Utilizing these advances an the skill of our doctors and nurses, we have dramatically reduced mortality rates. We have among the lowest mortality rate anywhere in the world. Done a great job, whether it’s ventilators or anything you want to look at, testing. We test so many people that we have more cases. Everybody says we have so many cases. That’s because we test so many people. We’re up to approximately 40 million tests going up to 45 very quickly. So we have tests, other countries don’t do tests like we do, so we show cases. Other countries don’t show cases, but what we do have is we have perhaps the lowest but among the lowest but perhaps the lowest mortality rate, death rate anywhere in the world. That’s a tremendous sign as to what we’re doing and what our doctors have learned and the kinds of things that we’re using. It’s an incredible number, statistically an incredible number.
A policy of never-ending lockdowns, month after month would ultimately do more harm than good to public health and so bad for our children. As a result, it really is more loss of life. We can’t do that. We have to get back now. We did it right. We saved millions of lives by what we did. We shut it down, we saved millions of lives. I put a ban on China. Heavily infected. I put a ban on Europe very early, both of them very early. We saved millions of lives, now it’s time to get back to work. A lot of people were against those bans and now they admit, most of those same people admit that ban was the greatest thing. It saved so many lives.
Crucially we realized that the health of a nation’s economy is fundamental to the health of its people. In the last two months we have begun the fastest economic comeback in history, including an increase in Hispanic-American employment, of more than 2.1 million jobs. That’s a record. The Hispanic Prosperity Initiative will help build on this program. I will be naming a leader of incredible vision, former Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico, John Sanchez and I know he’s here. John, I’d love to have you come up and say a few words please. Thank you very much.
Well thank you Mr. President. What an honor it is to be here with you and everybody else here in our nation’s capital. Let me say from a young boy who grew up in absolute poverty, the youngest of eight kids with a single mother, I understand what it is for the challenges facing all families but especially Hispanic families in this country, but because of her leadership through personal responsibility, stay in school, get a good education, we have lived the American dream. As a young boy I used to go and search for cardboard boxes out of the trash cans of grocery stores because we didn’t have the soles, Mr. President, on our shoes. We would hope and pray that it wouldn’t rain so the cardboard wouldn’t melt on our way to school. Here now almost 50 years later I stand next to the most powerful man in the world and the most powerful city in the world at the White House with all of you fine folks. Today, I have lived the American dream. I look at my brand new black shoes. That’s the American dream.
Nice shoes.
Mr. President, your leadership when it comes to job creation, education reform, choice when it comes to education, will allow this country to fulfill its American dream. I’m honored to be here with you Mr. President. Your great leadership making America great. We stand with you, we’ll keep America great under your leadership. God bless you. Thank you very much.
Thank you John. Great job John. Thank you very much. Great honor. I will also be appointing the CEO and president of Goya Foods, Bob Unanue, please. Please, Bob. Thank you very much Bob.
Good afternoon Mr. President. Good afternoon everyone. It’s such an honor and such a blessing to be here in the greatest country in the world, the most prosperous country in the world, and we continue to grow and that’s what we’re here to do today. Our company was founded in 1936 by my grandfather, who left Spain at only 18 years old, did not know where he was heading, but he was heading and looking for opportunity and prosperity and he found it in this great country.
Today our company is a multi-billion dollar company, with thousands of employees and with facilities all around the globe. We have a tremendous group of what we call la gran familia Goya, the great Goya family, and these are people, I told the president earlier, we haven’t gone back to work, we never stopped working because when I asked our group, our family, “This is going to be a tough thing.” They said, “Look Bob, if we don’t do it, nobody will,” and they stood up and they worked and we continue to work, day and night, to provide much-needed food and nutrition to this country.
Today, it gives me great honor and by the way, we’re all truly blessed at the same time to have a leader like President Trump who is a builder and that’s what my grandfather did. He came to this country to build, to grow, to prosper and so we have an incredible builder and we pray, we pray for our leadership, our president, and we pray for our country, that we will continue to prosper and to grow.
Today, I have an announcement to make that the grand familia Goya wanted to share with all of you. There’s a great need today in food banks around the country. Food is being depleted. Hopefully as the summer ends we have new crops coming forward but right now there is a shortage. So our employees and some partners we have in the industry wanted to donate one million cans of Goya chickpeas and a million pounds of food. These are all products made in the United States, steel, from United States steel, sealed in containers, [inaudible 00:15:22] in Arkansas donating food, our farmers and again all of our products, a lot of our products are grown here in the United States made in America, and we’re very proud to give back to this nation to the food banks which we’re going to be needing some of that important food. Something that we do all year but in particular at this special time, we wanted to make that gift. So God bless you all, we hope that we continue to prosper and grow in this great country and give thanks to God. Thank you very much.
Thank you Bob. Thank you. Thank you Bob. That’s very nice. We’re also grateful to be joined by future commission members standing behind me, Mario Rodriguez, Steve Cortes, Lourdes Aguirre, Jose Fuentes, Cassandra Garcia, [inaudible 00:16:22] Chris Garcia, Jesus Marquez, David [Olivencia 00:16:29], Alfredo Ortiz. Thank you all very much for being here. Thank you.
Great. Great group of people. We just had a fantastic meeting. Hispanic-Americans are cherished members of our national family. They have been an integral part of building this country throughout all of American history. Over generations, Hispanic-Americans have started countless small businesses, inspired our communities and served our country in every way imaginable. As police officers, service members, motor patrol agents, pastors, teachers and business leaders, they’re incredible.
Now Hispanic-Americans are watching as the cities they helped build, the communities they help police, the businesses they created, and the dreams they pursued are being threatened by an extreme movement that wants to tear everything down. At the center of this movement is an aggressive effort to defund the police, if you can even believe that. Defund the police, think about that. It’s a sad, sad thing. These people are crazy. They are crazy. Which would inflict great harm on our hardworking Latino communities. Great great harm. Many immigrants came to the United States in order to leave countries where the rule of law had been eroded and they don’t want those same conditions to be replicated here. They don’t want them back. They know what it is firsthand. They know what happens when the police cannot protect the innocent. When the rule of law is destroyed, when justice becomes an instrument of vengeance. Hispanic-Americans, they know. They’re hardworking patriots who support our police, protect our communities and believe strongly in the rule of law. I will stand arm and arm with the Hispanic community to ensure that every child in America can grow up in safety, security, dignity and in peace.
We believe that the timeless principles of the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution are all shared and they have to be shared in a big, beautiful heritage of all Americans. Whether you’re a first generation American or a fifth generation American, this is your home. American history is your history. It’s about you, it’s about your family, it’s about our country and the American dream belongs equally to you. American heroes inspire us all and their legacy falls to all of us to cherish and to protect and to revere. Every American, no matter your background, is entitled to a government that puts your needs and your families first. Americans of all walks of life are united by the same noble ideas and the same fundamental designs for good schools, strong families, safe communities, and abundant opportunity and I will not rest until we have delivered this future for every community, not only the Hispanic community which is doing so well, but every community in our land. Together we will write the next great chapter of the American adventure and we will defend the greatness of America for your children, for your children’s children, and for generations to come.
Before signing this executive order which is such an important executive order, I’d like to invite Secretary DeVos to come up and say a few words followed by Administrator Carranza. Please come up, Betsy. Thank you.
Thank you so much Mr. President for your leadership on this initiative. As you have noted education opens the door to prosperity and opportunity and Hispanic students like all students need to have the freedom and choice to find their education fit. Mr. President, you have led in advancing opportunity for Hispanic students by supporting Hispanics serving higher ed institutions by expanding the opportunities for charter schools by expanding the D.C. opportunity scholarship program right here in the district and there’s still more to do. Because all Hispanic students across our country need to have the opportunity to choose their right education fit. They need to have school choice. We know this is broadly supported by Hispanic families. 80% of them support this notion of insuring their children and their grandchildren have that opportunity. So thank you Mr. President for your leadership in ensuring that all Hispanic students hae that chance at the American dream.
Thank you.
Thanks Mr. President.
I can’t believe I blinked at you, President. Thank you Mr. President. It’s a tremendous honor to be part of an administration so dedicated to helping Latino entrepreneurs during this extraordinary time in our country. As the daughter of first generation Mexican-Americans, I know firsthand how important opportunity is toward promoting upward mobility and enabling the American dream. Creating opportunities is the central goal behind the president’s new executive order, establishing the White House Hispanic Prosperity Initiative, designed to help Hispanic Americans reach their dreams through innovative education and career pathways. Under your leadership, Mr. President, Latinos have been the fastest growing group of entrepreneurs in the country and we want to see that continue. [Spanish 00:22:40].
Hey Mike, maybe you’d come up just and say a real quick word because it’s about setting records out here but come on out. This man is such a big star now. California, you won in California. You got to be good, a Republican. Going to have a lot of Republicans winning in California, Mike I think, please.
I hope so. I think it’s the beginning of something great in California personally Mr. President. Thank you for the honor of being here today. It’s a huge honor to be here with my Hispanic brothers and sisters, leaders in your communities, leaders in your respective businesses. I am the American dream. I am a first generation American. My dad immigrated here from Mexico when he was nine years old. I had the opportunity to serve my country in the U.S. Navy, flying the most powerful strike fighter jets in the world, the F-18 [inaudible 00:24:51] aircraft carriers and combat operations, and now I’m sitting here as a member of Congress on the lawn of the White House.
I’d like to just echo the president’s comments that now is the time where we need to unite as an Americans and really realize what this fight is all about. It’s about freedom, it’s about liberties, it’s about fighting like it’s 1776 all over again. That’s how real this fight is. So I’m proud to be here. I’m proud to be serving my country again at this most critical time in our nation’s history, and Mr. President, thank you for your leadership. Brothers and sisters, thank you for being here today.
Thank you very much.
Huge honor. Thank you.
Ben Carson, please come up just for a minute. Say a few words. Ben, you’ve done such a great job. Thank you very much.
Thank you Mr. President and thank you all for being here today. You know it’s so important, the emphasis that you have placed on opportunity and you ask the White House Council on Opportunity &amp; Revitalization to look at those communities that were particularly affected in the COVID-19 and we look to that and not just the fact that there was more hypertension and diabetes, obesity, asthma, but to look another layer underneath that and to deal with that and that’s what we’re doing under your leadership.
Every single person in our society is worth saving. We only have 330 million people. Sounds like a lot but it’s a quarter of what China has, a quarter of what India has and we’re going to have to compete with them in the future so we need to develop all of our people and your emphasis on education and educational choice will be the thing that really distinguishes and liberates our people so thank you Mr. President.
So now I’m going to go and sign a very important document, one that we’ve been working on for a long time and I just want to congratulate the Hispanic-American community. Incredible people, thank you very much and God bless you all, God bless America. Thank you very much.
Mr. President, will you take some questions from us?
Wow. You having a good time? Members of Congress, members of my cabinet, and my fellow Americans, the First Lady and I are delighted to welcome you to the second annual Salute to America. On this wonderful day, we celebrate our history, our heroes, our heritage, our great American flag, and our freedom. Happy 4th of July to everyone.
I want to thank the US Army Golden Knights for that truly awe-inspiring display, tremendous talent. The Golden Knights and every member of the Armed Forces here this evening, we just want to say that you have earned the eternal gratitude of our entire nation. 244 years ago in Philadelphia, the 56 signers of our Declaration of Independence pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to boldly proclaim this eternal truth that we are all made equal by God.
Thanks to the courage of those patriots on July 4th, 1776, the American Republic stands today as the greatest, most exceptional, and most virtuous nation in the history of the world. Our workers, our factories have revolutionized industries and lifted millions into prosperity. Our artists, architects, and engineers have inspired the globe with transcendent works of beauty. American heroes defeated the Nazis, dethroned the fascists, toppled the communists, saved American values, upheld American principles, and chased down the terrorists to the very ends of the earth.
We are now in the process of defeating the radical left, the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters, and people who, in many instances, have absolutely no clue what they are doing.
Our inventors, scientists, doctors, and researchers have improved the lives of billions and billions of people all around the world. Our brave astronauts planted the American flag on the moon, and America will be the first nation to land on Mars.
All Americans living today are the heirs of this magnificent legacy. We are the descendants of the most daring and courageous people ever to walk on the face of the Earth. We inherit their towering confidence, unwavering enthusiasm, their unbridled ambition, and their unrelenting optimism. This is the untamed spirit that built this glorious nation, and this is the spirit that burns brightly within the soul of every American patriot.
That is why we pay tribute to generations of American heroes whose names have etched on our monuments and memorials and in the pages of history and in the hearts of a very grateful people. We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues, erase our history, indoctrinate our children, or trample on our freedoms. We will safeguard our values, traditions, customs, and beliefs. We will teach our children to cherish and adore their country so that they can build its future. Together we will fight for the American dream, and we will defend, protect, and preserve American way of life, which began in 1492 when Columbus discovered America.
Jobs and companies are coming back to our country like never before. The power of tariffs being imposed on foreign lands that took advantage of the United States for decades and decades have enabled us to make great trade deals where there were none. Tens of billions of dollars are now paid to the United States Treasury by these same countries.
But there and then, we got hit by the virus that came from China. We’ve made a lot of progress. Our strategy is moving along well. It goes out in one area and rears back its ugly face in another area. But we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned how to put out the flame. We’ve made ventilators where there were none by the tens of thousands, to the point that we have far more than we need, and we are now distributing them to many foreign countries as a gesture of good will. Likewise, testing. There were no test for a new virus, but now we have tested almost 40 million people. By so doing, we show cases, 99% of which are totally harmless, results that no other country can show because no other country has testing that we have, not in terms of the numbers or in terms of the quality. Now, just like everything else, we have become the manufacturer on record for ventilators. We have the most and finest testing anywhere in the world, and we are producing gowns and masks and surgical equipment in our country; where heretofore, it was almost exclusively made in foreign lands and-
It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China where, ironically, this virus and others came from. China’s secrecy, deceptions, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world, 189 countries, and China must be held fully accountable. With respect to remedies, we are now doing unbelievably well and are in deep testing on vaccines, treatments, and therapeutics.
I want to send our thanks to the scientists and researchers around the country and even around the world who are at the forefront of our historic effort to rapidly develop and deliver lifesaving treatments and ultimately, a vaccine. We are unleashing our nation’s scientific brilliance and will likely have a therapeutic and/or vaccine solution long before the end of the year. We’re very grateful to be joined this evening by Americans battling on the front lines to kill the virus. I just want to say that America thanks you. Please, stand. Please. Thank you very much. Great, brilliant people. These are great and brilliant people. Thank you. And brave people.
Our movement is based on lifting all citizens to reach their fullest God-given potential. Never forget, we are one family and one nation. This rich heritage belongs to every citizen, young and old, first generation American. We want to go from first generation to 10th generation. It matters not. We are American. We are from the USA. This great heritage belongs to citizens of every background and of every walk of life. No matter our race, color, religion, or creed, we are one America, and we put America first.
We will not allow anyone to divide our citizens by race or background. We will not allow them to foment hate, discord, and distrust. We will hold fast and true to the sacred loyalties that link us all as neighbors, as Americans, and as patriots. In every age, there have always been those who seek to lie about the past in order to gain power in the present. Those that are lying about our history, those who want us to be ashamed of who we are are not interested in justice or in healing. Their goal is demolition. Our goal is not to destroy the greatest structure on earth, what we have built, the United States of America, to build a future where every family is safe, where every child is surrounded by love, where every community has equal opportunity and every citizen enjoys great and everlasting dignity.
Our past is not a burden to be cast away. It is not a miraculous foundation that will lift us to the next great summit of human endeavor. This incredible story of American progress is the story of each generation, picking up where the last finished, linked by time, by fate and the eternal bonds of our national affection. Those who would sever those bonds would cut us off from the wisdom, the courage, the love, and the devotion that gave us everything we are today and everything we strive for tomorrow. We cannot let that happen. We will not throw away our heroes. We will honor them, and we will prove worthy of their sacrifice. These are great heroes.
Let me also say a word to those in the media who falsely and consistently label their opponents as racists, who condemn patriotic citizens who offer a clear and truthful defense of American unity. That’s what our people are doing. We want a clear and faithful defense of American history, and we want unity. When you level these false charges, you not only slander me, you not only slander the American people, but you slander generations of heroes who gave their lives for America. You slander people much braver and more principle than you. You’re slandering the young men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima and those who perished fighting for freedom in the Civil War. You slander them. You are dishonoring their great legacy and their memory by insisting that they fought for racism and they fought for oppression.
They didn’t fight for those things. They fought for the exact opposite. We will not let the legacy of these heroes be tarnished by you. The more you lie, the more you slander, the more you try to demean and divide, the more we will work hard to tell the truth, and we will win. The more you lie and demean and collude, the more credibility you lose. We want to bring the country together, and a free and open media will make this task a very easy one. Our country will be united after all. What do we all want? We want a strong military, great education, housing.
Low taxes.
Yes!
Law and order?
Yeah!
We want safety.
Yeah!
We want equal justice.
We want religious liberty.
Yeah!
We want faith, and family, and living in great communities, and happy communities and safe communities, and we want great jobs, and we want to be respected by the rest of the world, not taken advantage of by the rest of the world, which has gone on for decade after decade.
Yes!
We should all want the same thing. How can it be any different than those things? The more bitter you become, the more we will appeal to love and patriotism, and the more we will rise above your hate to build a better future for every child in our great country.
To celebrate America’s majestic inheritance, yesterday I signed an executive order to create a brand new monument to our most beloved icons, the national Garden of American Heroes will be a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans who have ever lived. We will honor extraordinary citizens from every community, and from every place and from every part of our nation. Great men and great women, people that we can look up to forever. Families will be able to walk among the statues of titans, and we have already selected the first 30 legacies and 30 legends, and why don’t we start with a man who’s been very unfairly treated, who twos years ago, three years ago, especially five or six years ago people would have said “It’s impossible to even attempt to try and disturb his incredible legacy and success?”
George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Betsy Ross, Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, James Madison, Dolley Madison, the great Frederick Douglass, Abraham Lincoln, Harriet Tubman, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, Clara Barton, Daniel Boone, Davy Crockett, Henry Clay, Susan B. Anthony, Booker T Washington, Orville and Wilbur Wright, who are looking down, and you’re going to see some planes like you have never seen before, because we build them better than anybody in the world. The greatest air force, the greatest fighters, the greatest everything. You’re going to be seeing something. I just wonder what Orville and Wilbur would have been thinking if they ever got to see that, but they’re looking, they’re checking it out right now along with us. Amelia Earhart. A great, great athlete, no matter where he went he was the best athlete, Jackie Robinson. George S. Patton. General Patton, he didn’t know how to lose. He didn’t know how to lose. General Douglas MacArthur, Audie Murphy, the great Billy Graham. An incredible man, respected by everybody, Martin Luther King. President Ronald Reagan, Christa McAuliffe, and Antonin Scalia.
So those are just a few of the people we’ll be naming, and things are subject to change, but once we make that decision, those great names are going to be up there and they’re never coming down. They have just been an incredible group, and we are going to do this in a very democratic way, frankly. We’re going to take names and suggestions, we’re going to have committees, and we’re going to pick the greatest people that this country has ever known, the most respected people, the people that helped us the most and the people that we can look up to and that our children and grandchildren and great grandchildren can look up to into the future and they can say “Isn’t America just a tremendous place?” So, thank you. That’ll be very exciting.
The Patriots who built our country were not villains, they were heroes whose courageous deeds improved the earth beyond measure. The beauty and the glory of our constitutional system is that it gives us the tools to fight injustice, to heal division and to continue the work of our founding fathers by expanding and growing the blessings of America. If you believe in justice, if you believe in freedom, if you believe in peace, then you must cherish the principles of our founding and the text of our constitution. It’s our founding and our constitution. It is a firm foundation upon which all progress is achieved. That’s why our country is so strong, even despite terrible things that happen over the generations.
Here this evening are a number of heroes who risked their own lives to uphold these values and to keep our communities and our country safe. We are joined by the outstanding law enforcement officers who have been able to fight on the front lines protecting our cities, many of them facing down violent assaults from very bad people. We are especially moved to be joined by the family of a great man, fallen officer David Dorn, a 38 year veteran of the St. Louis Police Department who was killed last month in the city he devoted his life to defending. And to David’s great family, I want to thank you very much. The American people will always support the courageous men and women of law enforcement, and nobody, nobody embodies that better than David. Thank you very much. Please.
Please. And David is looking down right now, and he is so proud of you, and he loves you so much, and thank you for being here. He’s a great man. He’s a great man.
Finally, tonight, we will salute the greatness and loyalty and valor of the men and women who have defended our independence for 244 years. We will honor the amazing men and women of the United States military. Never in history has a nation used so much power to advance so much good. Battlefields across the world and here at home are marked with the gravestones of young patriots who spent their final valiant moments on this earth to secure liberty and peace. Every child should be taught the military heroes who fought and died to make us free. These are great, great people. These are great, great heroes, indeed.
And our greatest leaders and heroes should be recognized and even immortalized for coming generations to see. You know that. This will make our country even stronger, long into the future. In a few moments, we will bear witness to awesome aircraft representing every major military conflict over the last 75 years. These planes once launched off massive aircraft carriers in the fiercest battles of World War II. They raced through the skies of Korea’s MiG alley. They carried American warriors into the dense fields and jungles of Vietnam. They delivered a swift and swip…you know that, sweeping … It was swift and it was sweeping like nobody’s ever seen anything happen. A victory in Operation Desert Storm. A lot of you were involved in that. A lot of you were involved. That was a quick one. And they’ve gone on to dangerous missions all around the world to take out enemy terrorists and bring our soldiers home safely.
As you know, we’ve killed, this last year, the two leading terrorists of the last 10 years, al-Baghdadi and Soleimani. Killed, gone, over. We’ve worked to fully rebuild the armed forces of the United States. No enemy on earth stands a chance. $2.5 trillion we’ve invested, all made in the USA. We’ve never had anything near the power and the equipment that we have right now. We did that over the last three years. Everywhere these aircraft have flown, they’ve rained down American thunder, delivered American justice, and they have fiercely defended every square inch of American sovereignty. In their steel frames, broad wings, and roaring engines, we see the story of America’s daring defiance, its soaring spirit, and undying resolve. Throughout our history, our country has been tested and tried, but we have always fought to victory. Whenever our way of life has been threatened, our ancestors have responded with the same resounding answer as those first patriots who fought for independence.
We are Americans, and we never back down. We never give in, and we never give up, and we will never yield defense of our nation. We love our nation. We will only fight to win.
Today, we thank God for the gift of life and for the blessing of liberty. We honor the legends of our history, the glories of our founding fathers, and the giants of the past, and the heroes of today who keep us safe, who keep us strong and proud, and who keep us free. Once again, happy July 4th to all. Our country is in great shape. Our military has never been stronger, and many, many good things are going to happen. Next year will be one of the greatest years we’ve ever had. I want to thank our men and women, they are so good, of the National Park Service, air traffic control, and the United States military. God bless you. God bless our heroes. God bless America.
And now, let the flyovers begin. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Very nice. Thank you. Big day. My pleasure to welcome you all to the beautiful, great White House and to host this magnificent showcase of America’s incredible small businesses. I just got to witness some beautiful product. Today we received outstanding news from all over our country, really. The United States economy has added almost 5 million new jobs in the month of June. That’s shattering all expectations and shattering all records, historic records. History of our country we’ve never edited anywhere near that. And last month we also broke the record, but now we shattered it much higher than even last month. This is the largest monthly jobs gain in history. We added 2.1 million leisure and hospitality jobs, 740,000 retail jobs, 568,000 education jobs and health care jobs, 357,000 service jobs. And very importantly to me, because you know what’s happening with manufacturing. We’re bringing it back because we’ve made incredible trade deals.
So manufacturing jobs are coming back and we added 356,000 manufacturing jobs. Incredible, incredible numbers, all records. African American workers made historic gains the likes of which we’ve never had before with 404,000 new jobs in June. That’s a record and that’s the highest number ever. We had 700,000 new jobs over the last two months for African American workers. That’s the highest ever. And both months are the highest. We shattered last month’s record. That was a record and we shattered it. Hispanic employment is up by 1.5 million jobs, great businessmen and women and they’re up 1.5, think of it, million jobs, Hispanic. 80% of small businesses are now open. New business applications have doubled since late March. America’s economy is coming back much stronger than ever anticipated by most people, almost all people because these numbers were… even the most optimistic people, these numbers are being doubled and tripled over what they thought would be possible.
We’re grateful to be joined today by Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross. Thank you very much, Wilbur. Thank you very much. You’re doing a great job. Every company here today embodies true American excellence. Your stunning craftsmanship, I just witnessed some of it. It’s incredible. It’s treasured and prized all over the world. The product you make is like none other and your spirit for America and the greatness of our country is unrivaled. With us are workers who make decorative American flags from Virginia, fly fishing reels from Florida, grills from Illinois, pies from North Carolina, looked very good to me. Coffee from Oklahoma, ice cream from Maryland and sunscreen and baseball bats from Texas, with unmatched skill and devotion you make the goods and build the products that proudly bear the wonderful phrase made in the USA. You seeing that more and more, made in the USA. We’re bringing our jobs back because of trade deals.
We have great trade deals and jobs are coming back and we have a lot of great trade deals right now under negotiation. We got to get them done as quickly as possible. The small businesses represented in this room continue a great and noble American heritage. You’re entrepreneurs, artisans, creators, craftsmen who forged your own path, made your own products and provide good paying jobs for our citizens, credible jobs, incredible people, and they truly are artisans. And you’re doing it all with American hands, American heart and American pride. Several of these companies are entirely veteran owned and operated. Especially as we approach Independence Day, I want to thank the courageous men and women who have served their country in uniform. We vowed to honor your sacrifice by forever defending the rights, freedoms, and principles you risked your entire life to defend.
Following the arrival of the plague from China, that’s what it is. It’s a plague and it should have never happened. China should have never let that happen, but China did allow it to happen. We had just signed a brand new trade deal and the ink wasn’t even dry when this came over, but we raced into action to save our nation’s small businesses. We passed over 3 trillion in historic relief measures, $3 trillion think of that, including over $670 billion for the paycheck protection program, a tremendous success as you can see by the numbers, to keep small business workers on the payroll. I signed a bill providing federally funded paid sick leave and paid family leave for American workers, things that have never been done. We’re allowing businesses to defer paying their income tax and we expanded tax refunds very substantially thanks to our efforts and the incredible resilience of our nation’s small businesses. And I really think we can add the foundation that we built.
We built the greatest economy ever built, and that foundation was so strong that instead of coming weekly back or going in the other direction, because this is coming back and we haven’t totally succeeded yet, we will soon, but we haven’t killed all of the virus yet. And yet you look at these numbers and that’s based on a very strong foundation that we built. A foundation like no other, a foundation that had we not been attacked by this virus, this horrible virus, we were doing things and had things planned that nobody else had ever even thought of. Paying off debt, building numbers the likes of which nobody’s seen. And yet next year we’ll be in a position where I believe in a certain respect, I think we’ll even be stronger than we would have been because of what we’re doing. But only that strong foundation allowed us to be up here today talking about these records, setting job numbers and other numbers that we’re producing.
Because America’s economy is now roaring back to life like nobody’s ever seen before nobody’s ever seen numbers like this. In May retail sales surge by nearly 18%, that’s a record. We recently saw the best 50 day increase in the history of the stock market. So we had 50 days, go back a couple of weeks. We had 50 days the likes of which we’ve never had in the history of the stock market, which to me means jobs. And it’s lifting up 401Ks and retirement savings for American workers. We’re doing numbers like nobody’s ever seen before, take a look at 401Ks. In a pandemic, we’re almost even with where we were before the pandemic started and nobody would have said that was possible, nobody at all. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and we’re now doing it again.
And I think we’ll do even better the second time than we did the first time, unless somebody comes along and says, let’s raise taxes on everybody. And they’re raising taxes, not only on cooperations, they’ll just go to another country and they’ll do just fine. But they’re raising taxes on people and middle income people and they’re losing jobs. So you can’t allow that to happen. All of this incredible job that we’ve done will go down like that. It will be a terrible, terrible sight. It might be even be a 1929 situation. So you have a chance to have the greatest numbers in history, you’re almost there. We’re almost back to where we were from the standpoint of the stock market, think of that. But you’ll have a crash like you’ve never seen before. If you put the wrong person in office, you’ll see things that you would not have believed are possible.
They want to raise taxes, they want to raise regulations. Big part of what we’ve done is by cutting regulation. We’ve cut regulation more than any president in the history of our country, whether they’re there for four years, eight years, or in one case, more than that, nobody even came close. And we’re doing much more. We have regulation, but it’s proper regulation, not strangulation. We’re also tapping into the talent genius and the drive of our people to kill the virus. We’re speeding the delivery of new treatments, including antiviral, steroids, convalescent, plasma, and other therapies. We have therapeutics that are really, really looking good. And this includes two drugs that have proven effective, Remdesivir and Dexamethasone which is having a tremendous trial. And we’ll see how that all happens. But we have three vaccine candidates. We’ve had many more, but three are really, really looking good.
And I think you’re going to have an answer to that very soon. Three vaccine candidates are now in trial with three more to start very shortly. These are all great companies. They’ve had tremendous success with other problems in the past, and we’re accelerating production through Operation Warp Speed. Plus, we have our military ready. So should we get whether it’s therapeutic or vaccine, our military is ready, logistically ready. These are the best in the world to get it out to everybody as soon as we have it and we think we’re going to have it soon. As we prepare to celebrate the 4th of July, let us renew our devotion to this nation, to its citizens and the eternal values that define our past and shape our future. I’m going to Mount Rushmore on July 3rd. We’re going to have a tremendous evening. It’s going to be a fireworks display like few people have seen.
It’s going to be very exciting. It’s going to be beautiful. They’ve been wanting to do that for years, fireworks. They used to do it many years ago and for some reason they were unable or unallowable to do it. They just weren’t allowed to do it. And I opened it up and we’re going to have a tremendous July 3rd and then we’re coming back here celebrating the 4th of July in Washington, DC. And I want to also thank all of law enforcement. The job you’ve done is incredible. We signed a bill, you play with our monuments or our statues, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s amazing how it all stopped so fast, stopped so fast. We let the local authorities handle it as long as possible, but ultimately we said, let’s step in. And we stepped in and it stopped. 10 years in jail if they do what they were doing.
So we’re very proud of law enforcement. We want to thank law enforcement, really great job. Our military has been incredible. Our National Guard has been just incredible all over. I’m glad to see in Seattle, they took care of the problem because as they know, we were going in to take, we were ready to go in and they knew that too and they went in and they did what they had to do. We’re a nation committed to equal and abundant opportunity for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. The American dream is the sacred birthright of every American child. And that’s what we have, is we have the American dream. And nobody’s going to shatter the American dream, not the anarchists, not the agitators, not the fools, not the looters. They’re not going to have any impact on the national dream, the national dream like no other.
That’s why we’re here today to ensure that every citizen can achieve their dream, achieve their destiny and realize their full and extraordinary potential. That is how we will renew, rebuild and restore America. We’ve done an incredible job in a three and a half year period, a job like nobody thought would be possible to be done, and we’re doing it again. And we’re doing it, I believe, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. You’re going to see that next year. And unless it’s tampered with, we’re going to have a year next year like no other. It’ll be a phenomenal year, a successful year and we’ll have our best job numbers ever next year.
We’ll come back stronger and more prosperous than ever before and next year will be, I think it’ll be one of the, from an economic standpoint, the greatest or one of the greatest economic years we’ve ever had. So I just want to thank everybody for being here. I want to thank all of these incredible artisans and business people for showcasing your amazing products. And I just want to leave you by saying very important words, God bless America. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
We’re making a lot of progress with the whole situation that came in from a place called China as you probably know, you probably see, but we have a little work to do and we’ll get it done. We’re having some very good numbers coming out in terms of the comeback, the comeback of our nation and I think it’s going very rapidly and it’s going to be very good but right now we’re in that process of building and it’s an honor that you’re with us today, we very much appreciate it. I’m delighted to welcome members of the Workforce Policy Advisory Board and I want to thank Ivanka she works very hard on this Board. She works very hard to get jobs and it’s made in the USA and jobs in the USA. I saw a group of your people yesterday having to do with ships, you’re involved in that partnership and it’s fantastic what they’re doing in Wisconsin. It was really a great day.
The Secretary of Treasury is with us and he’s worked very hard and I think he’s got some very good things to say and some pretty big news and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, Secretary of Labor Gene Scalia, Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos and Small Business Administrator who has definitely kept busy, Jovita, where’s Jovita? Jovita? Good. Jovita Carranza. Thanks also to Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds who has done terrifically. Kim? Hi Kim, nice to see you. Thank you very much and Eric Holcomb, governor of Indiana and we always recognize Eric because he’s … How tall are you Eric? [inaudible 00:01:45] pretty tall guy, right? But we have one that’s a little taller. You know where that is, Alaska? You know that, right? You’re doing a great job, we appreciate it as well as the CEOs who have signed our pledge to American workers, Marillyn Hewson, thank you very much of Lockheed-Martin. Sebastian Thrun of Udacity and Ginni Rometty of IBM. I want to thank you all, you’ve been really here from the beginning. Very much from the beginning and we appreciate it very much.
Together we built the greatest economy in history and literally in the history of the world, the greatest we’ve ever had, the greatest the world has ever seen and now we have to bring it back because we had a close in order to save millions of lives. We added 2.5 million jobs last month which was incredible number, the largest monthly increase in history and more than double the previous record, so we’re bringing it back. We had the greatest ever and we had to close it and now we bring it back and we start off with 2.5 million jobs in one month. I would say that’s pretty good Marillyn, right? That’s the highest ever done and then likewise retail sales surge by nearly 18% last month. That was the biggest jump ever recorded, so that’s great. The stock market has seen you go back a week, one week. So the best 50 days in its history, best 50 day increase in the history of the stock markets. Our pledge to America’s workers has secured commitments to over 16 million job and training opportunities from employers nationwide and some of the employers are with us and they’ve been fantastic.
I want to thank the American people for doing such an incredible job. They understand what’s happening and they see how fast we’re turning it around. I want to just state that this is Americans of all backgrounds that we’re talking about, to have the chance we want to get them the chance to learn and to build a successful career. We want to train Americans and we want to hire Americans so we’re training American and we’re hiring American. Before the pledge and this is a very big factor, we have a problem that has about 22 different names, but I’ll just call it the plague but before the plague struck, we had the lowest African-American and Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment ever. We’ve had the most jobs we’ve ever had, almost 160 million jobs. We’ve never been in a position like that. Women were thriving. Best numbers ever and since my election, more than half of those jobs, more than half, first time that’s ever happened went to women but now we want to get that all back, the African-American group got hit very hard. The Hispanic-American group got hit very hard. Essentially all groups got hit hard but now it’s all coming back.
To further expand opportunity I’m taking a bold action to reform the federal workforce today. I’ll sign an executive order that directs the federal government to replace outdated and really outdated … It’s called degree-based hiring with skill-based hiring so we want it based on skill. The federal government will no longer be narrowly focused on where you went to school but the skills and the talents that you bring to the job. We want that skill to be there, we want it based on merit, we’ve looked at merit for a long time and we’ve been able to get that done and today’s signing is a very, very important one. I think maybe before I sign I’ll ask Ivanka to say a few words and then we’ll go around a little bit. We’ll pick a few people and then we’ll sign and we go back to work. Thank you very much, Ivanka.
Thank you Mr. President and it’s an honor to have you here. We just convened our sixth meeting of our Workforce Advisory Board and we got an update on the team’s response on your bold call to action. First we’re going to be launching and Ginni Rometty in partnership with Tim Cook spearheaded this group, a massive advertising campaign that directs those that need to re-skill, learn a new trade to secure a job to the resources to enable them to do that so we’re very excited about the launch of this private sector led and driven campaign to match Americans with the training they need and ultimately the job they can seize that exists. The Advisory Board is also creating a series of pilot programs and Scott Pulsipher and Doug McMillon had been running these groups where we really think about how we create the resumes of the future and allow people to find job vacancies based on skill and for employers to connect with those unemployed workers again based on skill so creating a lot more efficiency to that process.
You are once again leading by example here today with this EO signing. As the nation’s largest employer, we are always seeking to recruit and retain the best and the brightest to serve the American people. Last December you fought for and secured paid leave for every federal worker, this was a first, creating a workplace that reflects our American values of both work and family and helping us retain our amazing talent. It’s also why you fought so hard this spring when COVID struck to secure paid sick leave for Americans employed by small businesses and additional funding for child care providers helping millions and millions of Americans remain employed and providing relief to small businesses across the country. This is going to ensure a faster and stronger recovery.
Today, we’re taking that next step as you mentioned and signing an executive order that directs federal agencies to hire based on skills and knowledge, not just outdated degree requirements. This will allow us to better recognize the talents and competencies of all Americans we hire. You built once the most inclusive economy in this country’s history and you’ll build it again. Through our pledge to America’s workers, the private sector has committed to investing in the training and education of over 16 million American students and workers and this continues, despite the vast change that the plague ushered in. Companies like Udacity, Sebastian Thrun joins us today, had been leading the way, and they’d been using their pledge commitment and fulfilling it by providing free tech training to American workers laid off as a result of COVID.
I recently had the opportunity to virtually meet one of the students that went through your program and received your scholarship in conjunction with the pledge and it was incredible. His name was Tony, he was a lifelong truck driver, he owned his own business, it was a single rig that he had. Through a series of setbacks, the company ended up going under. He signed up for a course in tech and is now a software engineer providing for his family, absolutely loving what he does, and there are many, many stories like Tony that hopefully will inspire millions across the nation. Marillyn Hewson, also an early pledge signed, of Lockheed-Martin committed to hiring during the pandemic using virtual technologies and other techniques to ensure recruitment processes move forward. So with more people teleworking and learning from home than ever before, we have a lot to accomplish in the months ahead and I’m really excited about your effort to extend this working group and to reform our federal hiring practices as we think about building that inclusive American economy as we transition to greatness. So thank you for today and it’s a pleasure to have you join us.
Thank you very much honey. Great job. Really has been. It’s been a labor of love.
It’s true.
Ivanka loves helping people. It’s a wonderful thing. Marillyn, how about starting with you?
Well thank you Mr. President. It’s really an honor to serve on this policy board and I must say I agree with you [inaudible 00:09:57] Trump, Ivanka Trump and Secretary Ross have led us well. We had a great effort over the last several meetings and put forward some strong recommendations that I hope to match the skills together with the jobs that are there and at Lockheed-Martin we’re proud that this year we’re on a path to hire 12,000 people and a lot of it is around making sure that we are getting the kind of apprenticeships and scholarships and skills training for them so that they can link up to jobs in our operation. Thank you.
Well you’ve done a great job and I got to see it again. I mentioned it was so impressive what I saw, the whole group yesterday. It was really great to be there and I didn’t know you had a big chunk of that one but you’ve done very well with it so we appreciate it. Please Sebastian.
It’s a great honor to meet you and I want to thank you for keeping us safe and moving us forward. This has been of course a wild time for all of us with over 30 million unemployed. It’s our chance to really redefine how education looks like and move into a world where people learn lifelong, have lifelong access and can really unfold their livelihoods. Ivanka was of course the visionary behind all this and thank you for doing this. Mentioned Tony [Boswell 00:11:10], a truck driver who was driving trucks for 10 years and then his truck broke down and it he couldn’t finance the new engine that he needed and he was unemployed, had no income, no education and came across by randomness a Google scholarship that Udacity launched, and then in ten months’ time was really able to become a software engineer. These are the stories that I believe this nation needs. I think we have so much opportunity, so much potential in this great nation, to bring people forward and I think this is the time to do it.
That’s a great story. It’s a great story, amazing story. Ginni, please.
Well first Mr. President thank you for your leadership during this time.
Thank you. Thank you.
You used an important word when you described Ivanka’s contribution here as a labor of love because this is something I think what the team has done collectively will have a very longterm impact, as well as short-term, and we are solving probably … Working towards helping solve one of the most important programs for growth for the country as well, so to help anyone from any socioeconomic background. So my hat is off and thanks to Secretary Ross and to Ivanka for having led us through this and I think we have put on the table is substantive change and I know it is change to a company like mine. So as you signed Skills First, we’ve adopted that and 15% of our hires last year were people from non-traditional backgrounds and so it’s really what this is all about I think and giving everyone a bright future in the digital era so thank you for that.
Thank you very much Ginni. Good job. Eric? Go ahead please.
Well, just to add my appreciation. I mean what you’re doing today is leveling the playing field and there’s been a lot of people, a lot of have nots that will have an opportunity to join the haves and to do it during a time of such challenge but to recognize the opportunity that’s here and to do it now, there couldn’t be a more important time so I appreciate everyone’s effort around this table and your leadership on this front.
And Indiana’s doing very well I’m hearing? Good things.
We are. We are moving in the right direction. We’ve got 93,000 unfilled jobs right now that we need to fill. We’ve ushered in 100,000 jobs in just three and a half years, the previous record was 93,000 in four years. These are high wage, high demand jobs, these are $28.00 north an hour.
That’s great.
So this is what it’s all about, scaling up the workforce. Thank you.
That’s great. Great job. Thank you very much. Kim?
Well thank you Mr. President and what I so appreciate about your administration is it’s really an administration of action. You identify barriers and gaps and then you help bring the right people together to find the solutions and enact those so thank you very much. It’s been an honor to be a part of this advisory board. I appreciate how … With the leadership of Ivanka and Secretary Ross, we really have identified the various elements, connected those elements whether it’s been consistent data, definition, goals and messaging, and I look forward to really amplifying that in the state of Iowa. By executive order I just created an economic taskforce. I brought several CEOs, business leaders and non-profits together to utilize their expertise in the way through innovation, adaptation and creativity, adjusted within weeks to the coronavirus and everything that this group has talked about will fold so well into what we’re trying to do at the state level and when you think about that happening in every state across the country, we really are going to come back stronger and better and really help provide opportunities for every single American so thank you for leading it.
All right, and we see it now Kim. Next year is going to be we think amazing actually.
Yep. I agree.
It’s going to be an amazing year. Larry? Would you like to say something?
Yeah, thanks sir. I spoke just before you came but I’ll just repeat the V-shaped recovery virtually every number is showing a V-shaped recovery now. Private surveys, government statistics, restaurants, homebuilders, truckers, durable goods makers, [inaudible 00:15:20] mobility and travel, gasoline demand. As you said the jobs went up really three million in May. We had tremendous retail sales. Actually today in the income report we had tremendous consumer spending, 8% at an annual rate for one month, it’s a great story.
That’s a great number.
I still think we’ll get 20% in the second half of the year and if we get another 5% in the first quarter of next year, we will be right back to the peak in 2019 where you got us the first time with the growth policies and I just want to say Ivanka, I gave you a big pitch, did the best I could. Private sector re-skilling and retraining and not only will people come back to the labor force when they’re re-skilled, they’ll come back with higher wages and they’ll come back with more confidence and it will make a huge difference as it already has and so I have added you to the four pillars of growth, the president.
Good.
Tax cuts.
Good taste.
Deregulation, energy unleashing, fair trade deals and private sector-led rescaling, how is that sir?
That’s great. That’s great, and I’m very happy, what you said about early next year. I think next year is going to be an incredible year. Thank you very much Larry.
I appreciate it.
Wilbur, would you like to say something?
Yes Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity to help, Ivanka and the others on this group. I’ve been very, very impressed with the productivity of this advisory board. Most advisory boards create a big thick book at the end that goes in the library and nothing happens. This group, every single meeting there’s a specific tangible thing that gets followed up and it gets implemented so it’s really been a heartwarming thing to see how productive these folks have been and I congratulate all of them.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Gene, please.
Thank you Mr. President and you mentioned the 3.5% unemployment rate just a few months ago. You did so many things for the American worker during those three years. Back in the summer of 2016, the Congressional Budget Office said that we’d be at 5% unemployment in February. They said that between and February 2020 they said we’d create 1.9 million jobs, we created seven million jobs. Larry touched on it, it was policies of tax cuts, of deregulation which brought us there which was just a wonderful thing for the American worker as jobs were being created and wages were rising but there was other work going on. What you see today is a manifestation of other things that were being done that are now going to have their day to really help workers. We are coming back. Larry’s mentioned some of the numbers, but we know that training will be important and we’re fortunate that this really very extraordinary group and as Secretary Ross has said, a group that really generated valuable product, they were working quietly to help train American workers. I spoke earlier about a new apprenticeship rule that we adopted in the Labor Department that I think will be very helpful. This will be an important part of the rebound.
Thank you Gene very much. Appreciate it. Steve, please.
Thank you Mr. President. As others said, your economic team working with you knew how to create jobs and created an enormous amount and because of this virus which unfortunately shut down the economy we know how to reopen the economy safely. Working with Congress we put $3 trillion in. It’s beginning to work, we see it and our work isn’t going to be done until every single one of these jobs is done. We know we need a few more tools, we’ll go back to Congress next month but we’re going to get everybody back to work and I’m confident we’re going to see a strong third and fourth quarter as we reopen.
That’s great Steve. Thank you very much. Anybody else would like to say something? Anybody? Anybody? This is your chance, go ahead please.
Mr. President I just want to say as your domestic policy chief what an extraordinary day today is and here’s why. It’s not just the work of this council and the leadership of Ivanka, it is the executive order that you are about to sign that completely resets the playing field. The federal government is the largest employer in the country with two million employees. Two-thirds of American adults do not have a college degree. Your signature that is recalibrating the work force away from being degree only to skill set is transformational and the opportunity for you to fight for all Americans, I think about Tony that Ivanka talked about, that Sebastian talked about from Udacity, from a truck driver to a software engineer, next potentially into the federal government because of this executive order that is focusing on skills rather than degrees. Congratulations and thank you for your leadership. It’s extraordinary.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Anybody? Jovita.
Yes, President Trump, thank you very much for your strong leadership. I sit in the audience here as part of a participation of this particular advisory board and I am a recipient of the type of programs that you are actually implementing and supporting. I started as a box handler in the world’s largest logistics company and so when I hear everyone talk about the dedication of the workforce and establishing some really comprehensive training, I took advantage of every training opportunity there was in that private sector and perhaps you’ll see another administrator similar to me based on the programs that you’re going to advocate and support. Because of the public-private partnerships that this administration has enabled, the paycheck protection program, just one example that has to four to five small businesses sustain their viability and also protected their employees, a baseline of about 60 million employees. So I thank you again for putting small businesses front and center.
One other comment. I’m looking at all of these private sector companies, the super leaders in your various sectors. You are the primary contractors for the subcontractors that I represent as an advocate for small business administration, so once you reinstate your viability, the small business sector will then follow soon after so thank you again.
Thank you very much Jovita. Thank you very much.
Mr. President.
Please.
I just appreciate your unrelenting focus on creating opportunity for all Americans and that begins with opportunities in education and I so appreciate your leadership there and it’s been a privilege to be part of this Ivanka and Secretary Ross, thank you for your work here in policy and action as Governor Reynolds said and thank you for your leadership.
Choice. How is that going, choice, right?
Yes.
That’s what we want. Please.
I was just going to say thank you Mr. President. From a university’s perspective, it’s often perceived as skills versus degrees but in reality in a skills denominated future it is that tide that lifts all boats because even those who possess degrees, they can better articulate the skills and competencies that they now have for the future of work and the reality is too is that it’s also more fair, it’s more equitable, it’s more prosperous for our workforce because what it really is is it’s now about what you possess and what you can demonstrate, not how you acquired the competency and skill. So it just creates much more of an equitable pathway and WGU is a competency-based education provider, as always been focused on how do you articulate the outcomes of achieving a degree in a skills and competency-based way so it’s much more aligned with the future of work and so it is truly that tide that lifts all boats. This is a huge step in the right direction so thank you very much.
I agree with you 100% I must say. I do. Okay? Why don’t we sign and this is a big deal. Congratulations to everybody in the room. This means a lot. Okay. We’ll do that for Marillyn and we’ll take this. Thank you very much. Okay. That’s very good. We have pens for everybody. All right, Page Two. Thank you very much. Well thank you all very much. We appreciate it. This is really an important day for a lot of reasons but this is one of them. Thank you all for being with us. We appreciate it very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Lee Greenwood. Thank you very much. Hey, it’s a good song, isn’t it? Lee Greenwood. And thank you very much. I’m thrilled to be here with you on this incredible summer day in Wisconsin on the edge of the beautiful Lake Michigan. That is beautiful too. I know it well with the legendary workers of Marinette Marine, and you now have a lot of contracts because of the United States government. You’re going to be so busy. You’re going to be so busy. I know you went through a little bit of a hard time, not anymore, not anymore. Got you covered for years.
For more than 75 years, the workers of this shipyard have built some 1,500 of the finest and most fearsome vessels ever to sail. You’ve kept our sailors safe and our Navy strong. Every single day, you prove that American workers are the best in the world, and now you’re going to do things like you’ve never done before. Moments ago, I walked the length of the Majestic Freedom class combat ship that many of you have been pouring your hearts and souls out for over a year. Soon, that ship will be commissioned into the most powerful fleet in human history.
We’re building up the Navy. We’ll have 350 ships. It was actually down to a level which was World War I. That’s a long time ago, isn’t it, World War I. We’re building it up very rapidly. It’s the United States Navy. It will be bigger and stronger than it ever was before. Everywhere it goes, our allies and enemies alike will know the strength and pride that symbolizes that name, USS, and there it is. Marinette, proud of it. It’s great.
I want to thank the leadership team of Fincantieri Marinette Marine for welcoming us to this incredible place. It’s truly an incredible place, and now the world is watching because you’re here, not because I’m here, because you’re here. But the world is watching you, including I want to thank Jan Almond, Dario [Desde 00:02:46], and Vice-admiral Rick Hunt. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Thanks also to Lockheed Martin executive Vice-president Stephanie Hill. Thank you, Stephanie. Great job. We’re pleased to be joined as well by commerce secretary Wilbur Ross, a legend on Wall Street, and he’s putting his magic to work. Our economy is coming back at a level that nobody ever imagined possible. We’re doing great. We’re doing good. And remember, as I say all the time because we want to say this in front of the media. There they are. Look at all those people, the fake news. We have the greatest testing program in the world. We’ve developed it over a period of time, and we’re up to almost 30 million tests. That means we’re going to have more cases. If we didn’t want to test or if we didn’t test, we wouldn’t have cases. But we have cases because we test. Deaths are down. We have one of the lowest mortality rates. We’ve done an incredible historic job, and I want the people working on it and not me, but I want all of those people on the task force that have done such a great job on the testing, on the ventilators. We’re now making thousands of ventilators a week. When we started, we weren’t making ventilators. We didn’t have them, and other people didn’t have it. We had very few. Now we’re helping other countries with the ventilator problem, a little bit like ships. They’re complicated to make. They’re big, they’re expensive, and we’re making now thousands a week, and we’re helping many other countries. They call, and they need help because this horrible virus has hit 188 countries, if you can believe it. It came from China, and it hit 188 countries. Not good, not good.
I want to thank Wisconsin state representatives John Nygren and Mary Felzkowski. Mary, thank you very much. John, thank you very much. Thank you both. And Marinette mayor, Steve Genisot, thank you, Steve, wherever you may be. Thank you very much. Thank you. We’re here today to celebrate the resounding victory for all of you, for Wisconsin, for the United States military and for an entire nation. Our nation is very proud of Wisconsin. Not long ago, the future of this historic shipyard was looking… Can I use the word bleak? Yes, I think we can. It was looking bleak. You were down to 44 people that was getting ready to close up. Then a lot of good things came along.
Despite your extraordinary service to our country over the generations, this beloved facility, the mainstay of your community by far, you were going to levels of poverty. They actually had levels of poverty that nobody would have believed with all the talent because I see that I understand manufacturing. Remember? Manufacturing was never going to come back. Well, it did come back, and it came back big. But I understand. I have an aptitude for manufacturing. And I said, “It’s got to come back, and it will come back.”
And we were doing great, and we’ll do now even better. We’re going to have a better year next year, I think, than almost any year in our history. And we were going through the single greatest year that we’ve ever had from an employment standpoint, from a stock market standpoint. And your 401ks right now, people have 401ks. They’re very happy with President Trump right now because they’re almost at the level that they were when the virus came over, but this is a mainstay of your community. And it was facing proposed and the prospect of a final layoff and a total downsize production, downsize to almost nothing. But this past April, Marinette’s fortunes turned around, and they turned around quickly. As part of my administration’s colossal rebuilding of the United States military, we’ve totally rebuilt the military, $2.5 trillion. And some people would say, “Well, that’s out of the budget.” I said, “Let me tell you something. There is no budget when it comes to our military because we don’t want the wrong people running up the front lawn of the White House, right?”
If they were, I don’t want to say, “Well, maybe I did a lousy job with the military, but I did a great job on the budget.” No, thank you. No, thank you. Now we have an incredible… And you know what’s the greatest part about it? The greatest missiles in the world, greatest rockets. You saw the other day one of the rockets go off so successfully. The greatest ships, the greatest ships. These are the greatest of their kind anywhere in the world, the fastest, the most powerful, the greatest of everything. And you know the beautiful thing about it, it’s all made in the USA. It’s made by you and your counterparts. It’s made in the USA, the Army tanks from Ohio.
As part of my administration’s rebuilding of the United States military, you were awarded a contract to build the next generation of guided missile frigate for the United States Navy, the FFG(X). FX, is that good? FX.
FX. Is that good? FX. So you got the FFGX. Yeah, that’s right. That’s pretty good. What does that stand for please? Would you please tell me? Does anybody know? FFGX? I think nobody knows, but that’s okay. It sounds good to me, but it’s going to be built right here in the American heartland and it’s going to be built by you. And it’s going to go on for a long time because it’s up to 20 ships and it might be extended, and they’re working on an extension right now and we’ll see, but just go. You’re going to be building your hearts away, so good luck on the program. The massive deal is worth up to $5.5 billion. We’ll put the shipyard to work constructing some of the fastest, most advanced and most maneuverable combat ships anywhere in the ocean. I heard that maneuverability is one of the big factors that you were chosen for the contract. The other is your location in Wisconsin, if you want to know the truth.
This contract will support your 1,500 full time employees, and it will also enable you to hire another 1,000 people all across the shipyards in Wisconsin. It’s one of the biggest contracts you’ve ever seen in the state. An estimated 15,000 additional new jobs will be created through the Wisconsin supply chain. You notice that’s not a supply chain going through China and going through other countries. It’s called the Wisconsin. Isn’t that nice? The Wisconsin supply chain.
That’s been bugging me for about 25 years. I think that’s why I became president, you want to know the truth. What we’ve done with your great deal, the USMCA and Canada no longer takes advantage of us like they did. People don’t realize. Oh Canada, beautiful national anthem, right? Oh Canada, but they were brutal on trade. And now they have to treat us fairly. USMCA. We got rid of the worst trade deal ever made in the history of mankind, humankind. They like me to say nowadays humankind, right? Humankind. See the ladies. I think they like it the other way just as much. Humankind. But I just want to say that we have an incredible deal and it’s going to lead to a lot of very positive things.
With the Wisconsin supply chain, 9,000 more jobs are going to be generated because of the chain itself and it’s a truly phenomenal achievement, and I congratulate you all. It’s going to be an incredible thing. It’s all going to be made right here in Wisconsin. Under this administration, you know that American workers like you are a national treasure. You are indeed victory at sea. Victory at sea, that’s what you lead us to. Your patriotism cannot be outsourced. Your eight decades of industrial heritage could not be replicated anywhere in the world.
That’s why we’re protecting our defense and our defensive industrial base, which we’re building up stronger and stronger and stronger. And we have other places all over the country just like this. Well, let’s say this is better okay? But that’s okay. Just don’t tell anybody I said it, but we have places, great places, incredible people, tremendously, tremendously successful people, people with tremendous talent and we’re doing other things in other locations like the missiles, like the rockets, like the tanks, like all of the things that we’re building. It’s incredible when you see it. It’s incredible. People don’t realize the talent that we have.
We started getting away from it. We started not building in the Navy. We haven’t built enough ships. The ships that they were building, they look terrible. I changed designs. I looked at it. I said, “That’s a terrible looking ship. Let’s make it beautiful. It’ll cost you the same and maybe less.” Sometimes you can make it look great for less money. I said, “This is not a good-looking ship. Let’s change the design of it.” And I got people in and we looked at different designs, and as long as we’re going to do it … And look at what you’re doing, how beautiful it is. They gave me a beautiful model that’s absolutely … It’s like a yacht with missiles on it okay? It’s beautiful. But you know, it’s true. You can build beautifully and it costs you sometimes less money, sometimes less money.
So that’s why we’re protecting our defensive industrial base and restoring this fundamental principle, and that’s economic security is national security. That’s what it is because you know what you were going through in this area of Wisconsin just a short period of time ago. And it wasn’t right and it wasn’t fair. As long as I’m your president, America will never lose that ship building talent or capability. It won’t lose that excellence or the expertise of the men and the women of Marinette Marine. We’ll never lose that. Never lose it. And we’ll always live by two simple rules; buy American and hire American. Buy American and hire American.
The first in class, FFGX will not just be a win for Wisconsin workers. It will also be a major victory for our Navy. And our Navy is just incredible, what we’re doing with our Navy. The stunning ships will deliver the overwhelming force, lethality and power we need to engage America’s enemies, anywhere and at any time. And with that, we don’t want to engage, but you know how you don’t have to engage? When you build a product like you’re building right there. When you build product like that, you don’t have to. When you don’t build product like that, and we go bare … We rebuilt our military. Our military was totally depleted. When I became your president, we had planes that were 50 years old. We had a military that was tired. It was very tired from years of fighting, endless wars, wars that never stopped, and you see what’s happening at that front.
We have the strongest military in the world by far and before we had an old, we had a very tired military. What we had were great people in the military, but they weren’t given the right equipment so now they are; two and a half trillion dollars. Each [inaudible 00:14:30] will boast a 32-cell vertical missile launcher to take American justice to any foe if necessary on air, land or sea. You know about it very well. You live with it. The ship will fuel the most advanced air research and air search radar capability in Naval history. There’s never been anything so advanced as what you’re building. Amazing. The ship is 30 times more powerful than the previous generation. That was one that got me. 30 times, think of that. 30 times more powerful than the previous generation, and it will carry an MH60 Seahawk helicopter and an unmanned MQHC Fire Scout drone.
Through your sweat skill and devotion, the workers of this shipyard will forge the future of the United States Navy. You’re going to be a very big part of the United States Navy and there are other things coming. As you get set up with this, this is a lot to handle, but as you get set up, they’re going to be spending a lot of money on the renovation of the yard and the expansion of the yard. We have other things coming. And you’ll fashion the ultimate symbol of American power and American prestige. Wherever the FFGX cuts across the horizon, it will go as a 7,500 ton message to the world that American might is second to none.
… Is second to none. That’s right. I’d like to take a moment to recognize just a few of the hardworking patriots who are helping to bring these monumental ships to life. And that’s what they are. Gary Iad is the third generation of his family to serve at this shipyard. He has worked here for 17 years and is now a production manager. Gary, please come up and say a few words, Gary. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President. It is an honor to be here. My name is Gary. I’m a production manager here at Fincantieri Marinette Marine. I work in building 10, the one you just toured, the erection facility. I have been fortunate enough to be employed here for over 17 years. I started in the trades and through hard work and dedication I transitioned into management. These employees in front of you are here to build the best ships possible. The sense of pride felt when a ship gets launched or goes out on trials is like nothing else. These men and women breathe life into steel. Through hard work, long hours and dedication these individuals give the American war fighter, the ship he or she needs and deserves. Mr. President, Wisconsin, thanks you. The city of Marinette thanks you and Fincantieri Marinette Marine thanks you.
Thank you very much, Gary.
He looks like he’s 21 years old. He said he worked here a long time. Gary, whatever you’re doing it’s working. You look good. We’re also joined by Tyler Cahill. Tyler served for nine years in the US Navy, then returned here to his hometown to become a quality technical coordinator. Tyler also helps recruit young, talented people. Usually, I guess, from Wisconsin. I think probably, I don’t know if he accepts anybody from anywhere else. You’ll have to talk about that, I think. But I want to just ask Tyler, please come up and say a few words. Take you Tyler.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you.
Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Tyler Cahill. I’m a native to the Marinette area, a former second class petty officer in the United States Navy Seabees, an Afghanistan War vet, a hockey coach and a quality coordinator here at Marinette Marine. When I first moved back to Marinette and started here as a welder in 2012, I would have never imagined how far my career and community would grow. The shipyard is a lifeline to the community and a driving force behind its economic growth. In major part due to the LCS program and the newly awarded frigate contract, I’ve seen young families move to the area, friends open new local businesses and a beautiful new sports facility opened to be utilized by the local hockey kids that I get to coach. None of this would have been possible without these contracts. So, once again, Mr. President, I’d like to say thank you in allowing us to continue supporting our nation’s Navy. Thank you.
Thank you, Tyler.
He looks like a tough hockey player. I wouldn’t want to be checking him, right? Tyler is a pretty tough looking guy. The dedication of the men and women here today will also help our military accomplish one of my top national security priorities, rebuilding a 355 ship Navy. As I told you, it went way down. Very sad. After years of painful budget cuts, we ended the last administration’s disastrous defense sequester. We ended the sequester. You know what that means, I think most of you? Let’s put it that way or this way, it was a very good thing that we did, otherwise you wouldn’t be building these ships right now. We ended what was a true disaster.
We’ve invested the $2.5 trillion in all of the greatest equipment in the world and it’s all made here right in the USA and a lot of it is going to be made in Wisconsin, outside of this facility also. And I signed a new law creating, very importantly, this was something very important to me, the sixth branch of the US military, the space force. That’s a big deal. That’s a big deal. We’re revitalizing our partnerships around the world and insisting that other nations pay their fair share in NATO. They weren’t paying up and now many of them are. Some of them still don’t pay like they should, they’re delinquent. You know that word? They’re delinquent.
No other president pressed them to pay. I press them to pay and the people at NATO are very happy with me, I will tell you. The secretary general said, “There’s never been anything like it. We took in $140 billion more money from other people, not from us, from other people paying their bills.” Because for many years they didn’t pay their bills. We were guarding nations and they weren’t paying for it. And somehow I said, “That doesn’t work too well.” Not for me and not for you either because you’re smart. This is great news for American workers and taxpayers as part of Saudi Arabia’s effort to fulfill its own defense obligations. Last year, the kingdom placed a $1.3 billion order for four new vessels made by your great company. So, you know the vessels that are getting built right now and we felt very strongly that this is where it should be and we gave them a strong recommendation and they followed it. That’s very good.
Since 1942, when your company was founded to build five wooden barges for World War II, this small town in Wisconsin has raised up one of the premier ship building enterprises anywhere on earth and if you come back here in five years, you’ll see one of the top places anywhere in the world. You should take immense pride in what you’ve done and those before you, in many cases, your fathers and your grandfathers, in many cases, your fathers are alive and very proud of the job you’re doing. I met three people whose fathers worked here and it looked like it was ending and now they work here and they’re going to be here for a long time. And I said, “Get your son ready or get your daughter ready.” Your tradition of excellence has given America two classes of combat ships, the coast guard cutters that patrol our maritime borders, a state-of-the-art icebreaker, which is incredible, which we had not an easy time getting approved, I will tell you that. Democrats don’t like approving money for the military for whatever reason, some day you’ll explain that to me, they don’t like spending money on our military, and several of the Staten Island ferries, and so much more doing a lot of work.
The workers of the shipyard and the people of this state have always prospered and persevered by holding fast to our shared American values. In this country we honor work, we celebrate great craftsmanship. I understand craftsmanship. I understand this world so well, you wouldn’t believe it. You wouldn’t believe it how well I understand it and how well I appreciate it. I appreciate talent and that’s real talent, craftsmanship. And we salute the dignity and nobility of the American worker. We look out for one that you wouldn’t believe. We look out for everybody. We’ll look out for one another. We’re loyal to one another and we love our families. We want our families taken care of. We want our families to prosper. We want our community to prosper. This community was not prospering with all that talent they-
But this community was not prospering. With all that talent, they weren’t prospering, and now you’re all working and doing something that you love. I know most of you, you can’t wait to get to work. That’s the way I feel, and your job is much more pleasant than mine. That I can guarantee. That I can guarantee. You don’t know what I have to go through with these people. They said to me, “Sir,” a friend of mine, very smart, very successful person. Used to call me Donald, now he calls me sir. He says, “Mr. President.” I said, “Call me Donald.” “Yes, but I can’t, Mr. President.” Which is okay. He said, “So, which is the toughest nation to deal with? Is it China? Is it possibly Russia? Or is it maybe North Korea?” I said, “No. The toughest nation to deal with are the Democrats in the USA.”
The Democrats in the USA are much tougher to deal with than any of these people that we deal with. They’re far more unreasonable, and actually, they’re a little crazy. We take care of our communities, and when the time comes, when history calls, when our flag is threatened, we defend our country like nobody else has ever defended our country or our flag. We defend our flag. We stand tall, we stand strong, and we always stand proud of the United States of America. With the help of everyone here today, this shipyard will continue to prosper, this state will continue to thrive, and this nation that we love will climb to new heights of glory and to greatness, and that’s what’s happening right now. We’re going to have a great third quarter and we’re going to have a phenomenal next year, you’ll see.
Next year will be one of the greatest years. You see it happening already. It’s happening and it’s happening quickly. So, I want to thank everybody at this amazing yard. I want to thank the grandparents and the parents who put you here. They’re very proud of you. Some are looking down on you right now. They’re looking down from heaven, and they’re very proud of you. They’re very, very proud, and I’m also very proud of you. So, congratulations to you all. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you all. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
[Singing 00:26:35].
Thank you very much. Please, thank you. Good afternoon. And before we begin, five years ago, nine innocent parishioners of a historically black church, you all remember this horrible event, were tragically killed during an evening Bible study in Charleston, South Carolina. That was a despicable act of evil. [inaudible 00:01:02] Somber day, as our hearts still break for the victims and our prayers go with all that was a terrible event, it was a terrible day. Terrible, terrible day for our country, for the world to witness.
Thank you very much for being with us at the White House. As we reaffirm our sacred promise to support and protect our great veterans. We love our veterans. And great, they are. With honor and courage, these incredible patriots perform their duty to America, and now we must fulfill our duty to them, and that’s what we’re doing. We’re doing it beyond what anyone’s ever done as president or as an administration.
We’re gathered together to address an especially urgent struggle. Today, we’re unveiling our roadmap to empower veterans and end the national tragedy of suicide. Tremendous problem. Tremendous, tremendous problem. My administration is marshaling every resource to stop the crisis of veteran suicide and protect our nation’s most treasured heroes. They’ve been through so much and it’s such a deep-seated problem, and we’re doing tremendous research and everything you can do, but it is something that nobody quite understands, and they’re gaining knowledge, but they don’t quite understand it.
I want to thank our vice president for being with us. And I especially want to thank frankly, wonderful Karen Pence, who is so committed to the veterans and this particular problem. And thank you very much, Karen. We appreciate it. Thank you.
Here as well are several members of Prevents Taskforce. Prevents, it’s called. Prevents. Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Robert Wilkie. Robert great job. 90% approval rating. The VA it’s way, way up, 90%. That’s a number that has never, not even come close to attaining that number. So it’s a tremendous job you’re doing. Thank you very much.
Secretary of Labor, Jean Scalia. Jean, thank you very much. Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex Azar. Alex, thank you. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the great Ben Carson. Thank you, Ben. Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos. Thanks, Betsy. And Acting Director of OMB, Russ Vote. Thank you, Russ, very much.
Also with us are Surgeon General Jerome Adams. Where’s Jerome? Jerome, hi, Jerome. And he got a standing ovation the other day. Introduced him. He got the only standing of ovation. Jerome, what was that all about. And the Executive Director of Prevents Taskforce, Dr. Barbara van Dalan. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, Barbara. And representatives from several of our nation’s leading veterans groups. We have tremendous people in this room. People that worked so hard for the veterans and they love our military. They love our country. They love our veterans. Thank you all for being here very much. Very much appreciated.
From day one, my administration has been on a mission of historic scope and scale to deliver results for our great veterans. After years of shameful scandal and neglect under the Obama Biden administration. And scandal and neglect it was. We have fundamentally reorganized the VA from top to bottom. And we’ve re-established a crucial principle. American veterans deserve the highest standard of care anywhere in the world. And that’s what they’re getting. Great leadership.
To help veterans get the care they need when they need it, we approved Veterans Choice and made it permanent. And that was a big deal. They’ve been trying to get it for decades and decades and decades. And we got it. We got it done.
And basically that means if you have a problem and you can’t get to a doctor, it doesn’t work. You end up going outside, you get your doctor. We pay the bill. And they get immediate service. Some of the veterans were forced in past administrations, for a time beyond the Obama administration, even, but for a long time, they were expected to wait a week and two weeks and three weeks just to get to see a doctor. It was a terrible situation. Now we have Veteran’s Choice. They’ve been trying to get it so long. And it works incredibly well. And I would say that’s a reason why when I say 90% approval rating, that’s probably one of the big reasons.
Before I took office every month seemed to bring a new story of crisis at the VA, by our friends from the media. But the days of endless and deadly wait lists are over and they are never going to come back. Never going to let them, nobody can allow that to come back. What our vets had to put up with. I signed the VA Accountability Act into law, and we’ve removed more than 9,000 VA workers who were not giving our veterans the care, respect, attention that they’ve earned. And now that we have accountability… It’s accountability, very nice word. If an employee of government mistreats our veterans in any way, does something wrong, isn’t good for the VA, the secretary looks at them and says, you’re fired, get out. Before you couldn’t do that.
We had people for years and years. We had stories. I could tell you story after story, how bad it was. You had sadists. You had thieves. You had some bad, bad people. So 9,000 have been fired and they should’ve been fired a long time ago, but we got accountability. VA Accountability passed. We secured record funding for the VA, including $9.6 billion for mental health services in 2020. $9.6 billion. Every VA medical facility now offers same day emergency mental health. Something we didn’t have, or even come close to having.
We didn’t have, or even come close to having. We have dramatically expanded telehealth for our nation’s veterans, and with COVID, it’s really become probably the hottest thing there is in medicine. Wouldn’t you say? I think so. It’s gone up in terms of usage by hundreds of times. It was not picking up until COVID came along, and now it’s one of the hottest things you have going in the medical world, allowing people to consult with doctors from the comfort of their homes and not having to go out and not having to make long trips, and they get tremendous advice. I hope. The promised White House VA Hotline that I’ve been talking about has fielded more than 400,000 calls, right in the White House, successfully resolving 98% of veterans’ concerns. It’s a great thing. We have substantially cut the wait time for veteran appeals, ensuring all issues are resolved in a swift and timely fashion. It goes very quickly now. Very, very quickly.
We’re modernizing medical records to begin a seamless transition from the Department of Defense to the VA, something others have tried and failed to do. They’ve tried it for decades. Long time, they wanted to do it. It’s actually not as easy as it sounds, getting it done, but we got it done. The VA has also cut opioid prescriptions by 35% since 2017, and we’re committed to defeating the opioid epidemic in America. We’ve brought it down by as much as 17% in some areas, 19, 20% in other areas, but that still means you have a lot left.
But a lot of good things are happening. I have to say, our border, where much of this comes in, drugs come in, we have a drug problem. We have an opioid problem. It’s all the same big problem. But our border now is as secure as it’s been in many, many years. The wall is now up to mile 212, and wherever we have the wall that takes care of that area completely. But we’re now down to among the lowest numbers we’ve ever had on the border. And I want to thank the president of Mexico because we have 17,000 troops right now on the border, Mexican troops, and really helping us a lot.
The number of veterans who say they trust the VA services has increased 19% under this administration. That’s a tremendous increase, but I’m still more impressed. It’s an all-time high, by the way, but I’m still more impressed by the 90 to 91% number. That’s the number I’m going to use from now on. All right? Can I do that, Robert? I like that, 91%. Can you imagine if you were a politician, you had a 91% approval rating? That would be pretty good.
But there’s more work to do. Ending the tragedy of veteran suicide demands bold action at every level of society. Twenty veterans and service members take their own lives every single day. The loss of our heroes breaks our hearts and pains our souls. One year ago, I signed an executive order establishing PREVENTS Task Force to develop a nationwide strategy to support our veterans in distress and stop the grave tragedy of veteran suicide. Today, thanks to the leadership of Secretary Wilkie, he’s been outstanding, I’m proud to announce that we are taking this critical initiative to the next level. Following the ambitious roadmap the task force has developed over the last year, you’ll see things happening that nobody would have ever thought even possible.
To lead this effort, Mrs. Pence and a team of ambassadors that she was very much involved with in choosing, including the Surgeon General, Jerome Adams. You’re only there, Jerome, because Mrs. Pence wanted you there. Okay? It’s a nice compliment. She’s tough. That’s a nice compliment. We’ll launch a national public awareness campaign in the coming months. This historic campaign will mobilize every sector of American society to encourage heroes in need, empower them with the best prevention practices, and help every veteran thrive in their lives after service.
They come home from these active battlefields and left sometimes alone, and then you have a hard time with it. They fought our battles overseas, and now we must join them in winning this new battle at home. There’s no single solution to this issue. Every resource must be brought to bear. We’re expanding our partnerships with military and veteran organizations, universities, faith-based leaders, businesses, nonprofits, and all levels of government to establish specialized support systems for our veterans. The task force has already partnered with 30 large corporations to help them prioritize the mental health of their employees, and we will continue adding to that number, and the number’s growing very rapidly. Very, very rapidly.
We’re also launching a national research strategy. The PREVENTS office will work with the greatest scientific minds across our nation to evaluate research to better understand the trauma service members face. They face tremendous, tremendous trauma. Identify effective treatments and communicate their findings to the public. The PREVENTS office is currently reviewing the $1.5 billion of federal funding committed to suicide prevention to make sure research goes where it is most needed in order to save lives and to make lives better. Here with us today is former Marine and Coastguardsmen, Chad Hiser, who can share with us his personal testimony about the importance of the steps we’re taking today. And Chad, if I could please, would you say a few words? Thank you.
Mr. President, distinguished guests, thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak on this vital mission that affects the veteran community so much. The Bible says in Jeremiah 29:11,”‘For I know the plans I have for you,’ declares the Lord. ‘Plans to prosper you and not harm you, plans to give you a hope and a future.'” God never wastes a hurt. These are the words I was told long ago by a mentor and friend, but never really understood their impact until I began the healing process from my trauma that I experienced in combat as a United States Marine. On March 23rd, 2003, in one horrific day, 18 Marines were killed that were part of Task Force Tarawa during the invasion of Iraq at the Battle of an-Nasiriyah. Three days later, there was a friendly fire incident, which rounds were mistakenly fired, resulting in the injury of Marines. After being honorably discharged, at the end of my enlistment, I returned home feeling-
… Discharged at the end of my enlistment, I returned home feeling guilty for surviving, shame for feeling like I hadn’t done enough. The war was still in my mind. I was detached physically, emotionally, and spiritually. I was angry and isolated from the world, including my family. Just one year after leaving the marines, I decided to return to military service. This time with the United States Coast Guard. Seeking a last ditch effort to cope with the pain and regain my purpose in life. Unfortunately, my condition only worsened. In 2005, I attempted suicide. I was transported to a medical hospital, diagnosed with post traumatic stress disorder. And shortly after I was medically retired.
During this time, my wife was praying. She was asking God to help heal me from this combat trauma. I felt there was no one I could turn too. That my life just wasn’t worth living. As a tough marine, I was hesitant to seek the help I truly needed to recover. Two-thousand and nine by God’s grace and mercy, I was saved by Jesus Christ. After carrying these burdens that I had carried for so long, the newfound hope I had was my foundation now. In 2011, I participated in Wounded Warrior Projects, Project Odyssey, a combat recovery retreat. For the first time, since returning from combat, I was able to open up about my own personal experiences and help further my own recovery process.
This was truly a turning point in my life. That gave me a sense of new direction. As a Wounded Warrior Project peer mentor, warrior leader and national campaign team member, I am fully committed to serving the veteran community by giving my time and attention to listen, empathize and encourage and help carry the burden shared by countless veterans facing similar struggles after war. I’ve realized through my own experience, how vital it is for veterans to have a positive support system, not only within our families and communities, but also within our government. Showing support and caring for those who are hurting. It’s also important to let everyone know, let the country know that they can be strong and ask for help, if you’re struggling.
Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to personally thank you for your decision to implement this important initiative, combating mental health and suicide crisis within the veteran community. I am so grateful for your actions and insisting veterans to get the help they need at such a critical time. Your leadership in this matter, truly shows your care for our nations warriors. Thank you.
Thank you sir. That’s fantastic, Chad. Thank you very much. I thought because she is so important to what we’re doing. I could just, prior to Secretary Wilkie, ask Karen Pence to say a few words and she’s going to be leading us into the promised land on this very tough subject. Do you mind? Please. Either one, Karen.
Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say thank you for this administration realizing that this is an issue that we need to face head on. You are changing the culture. It’s the leadership at the top. It’s people like Chad being willing to be vulnerable. It’s people like Dr. Van Dahlen leading the whole Task Force of real experts who have been dealing with the suicide issue for many decades. And now all of us are coming together. We came together a few months ago at the vice president’s residence. We talked about how we wanted to go forward with this initiative.
And I feel like right now is such an opportune time because we’re all dealing with anxiety. We’re all dealing with stress right now. So if I can do anything as lead ambassador, it’s my goal to help take away the stigma of mental health. Take away the stigma for people to be able to come forward like Chad, to say, there was a time in my life where I wanted to end everything. And our veterans, I’ve met with so many of them who say to me, “I don’t go to that dark place anymore.” And so we are giving them hope. We want them to know, and anyone who’s considering suicide, that there are people out there who want to help. There is a way forward. And I just am so grateful and honored to be lead ambassador for PREVENTS. So thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you, very much. That’s good. Thank you very much. So she had no idea I was going to do that, but I have to say that I did it about two months ago. I said, “Beth, maybe Karen wants to say a few words.” And she got up and she spoke for five minutes. She blew everybody away. She was the star, right, Mike? And I said, “Come on, Karen, you got to go.” Great. Great. Really appreciate it. You’re going to do a fantastic job. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, let’s go.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have been accused by some in this room of living in the 19th century and looking back on American history, before I make any decisions. And I’m going to plead guilty to that for a second here and say that in the history of presidential campaigns, and then later. The administrations of a victorious candidate, there has never been a candidate or a president who put veterans front and center. First of the campaign, and then of the administration, until you did. I’m going to speak for Mrs. Pence, and I’m going to speak for myself as the son of a grievously wounded combat soldier from Vietnam and in Mrs. Pence’s case the mother of a marine warrior.
These are issues that we live with every day and for the [inaudible 00:23:45] time. That those who have carried the burden of freedom on their shoulders are put front and center in the national conscience. That is an enormous first step for this nation and long overdue.
Thank you, Robert.
I’ve thanked Mrs. Pence. I want to thank two other people. First is our executive director, Barbara Van Dahlen, who took this burden on herself, but took it joyfully, and is not only opening the aperture when it comes to a discussion of this last tragic act in a veteran’s life, but also opening the aperture on a discussion, finally having a discussion on mental health and addiction. So Barbara, I thank you very much for what you do. And last but not least, I want to thank our Deputy Secretary Colonel, Pamela Powers, who took this on when she was Chief of Staff and has carried it across the finish line. I thank you very much, ma’am.
Mr. President, I’ll go back to that history in the 1890s, of one of your predecessors whose portrait hangs in the Green Room, was alarmed at the reports he was receiving from the frontier army of countless deaths amongst officers and men on the far outposts of the American West. He was the first president to begin taking a look at those sad numbers, and it has taken these 130 plus years for another president to finally say, “Enough is enough.” On any given day, 20 American warriors take their own lives. Those are active duty, Guardsman, Reservist. The largest part of that number is from my father’s generation in Vietnam, but another reason why this task force is so important is that it will point the way from the rest of the country.
Growing up as a youngster at Fort Bragg, the leading cause of death amongst my classmates in junior high and high school was automobile accidents. Today, it is suicide. It is a scourge that is impacting every, every segment of this country. So I want to thank the president for having the vision to identify the real solution to this national problem, and that is us. Each one of us. Each one of us can help end the stigma that has prevented America from taking on the important issue of mental health. Each one of us can work to change the culture that made it acceptable to ignore the signs of mental health and distress. Each one of us can learn to identify the signs amongst our friends, our neighbors, and our coworkers. So this day is the beginning of one of the most important national discussions America has seen. It is an effort to find a solution to a problem that does not discriminate amongst its victims: The poor, the rich, people of all races and creeds.
So I’m going to end with a story that I’ve told before, and it was one that I was very familiar with growing up at Fort Bragg. The looming presence in the home of the airborne was Matthew Ridgway. In fact, he was so powerful that even the minor league baseball team’s mascot is named after him in Fayetteville. General Ridgway commanded the All American Division to victory in North Africa and Sicily, and then General Eisenhower tasked him with leading the airborne assault on Hitler’s fortress, Europe on the night of D-Day. General Ridgway planned the operations for the All Americans, the Screaming Eagles and the Red Devils of the British 1st Airborne. But on the night of the invasion, he couldn’t sleep. He fell out of his cot, and he reached for sustenance in the Old Testament, and he looked to the Book of Joshua, and God’s promise to Joshua on the eve of the great battle of Jericho. And the Lord promised the General, “I will not fail nor forsake thee.”
Mr. President, that is what you have sent to the American people today, and to the 20 million Americans who are in uniform and who have left uniform, that we will not fail nor forsake the people of the United States who have always carried, without question, our freedom on their shoulders. So Mr. President, I thank you very, very much.
Great job you’re doing. So Karen Pence has stated beautifully just a little while ago that the two words, anxiety and stress, and all I can say, Mike, is thank goodness we don’t have any anxiety or stress in this job, with these people back there. But I will tell you, we’re working very hard on this problem, and I think we’ve made a tremendous amount of progress. I even noticed your number, 20. 20 is different than 24. You know what that means. Each day. Hard to believe. Each day, but 20 is a big difference, and we’re getting it way down, and with some of the treatments that we’re talking about, I think it’ll go a lot lower than that.
And Barbara, I want to thank you very much. I want to thank Chad. I want to thank you very much. That was a beautiful, beautiful statement. You’ve done such a fantastic job. I see General Kellogg. He’s one of our great generals. He’s done a fantastic job for me, and he’s doing some very important things for me right now. So General, thank you very much. Really fantastic job. And we will have another meeting soon, and that meeting will be a meeting of progress, because I know with Karen in charge and with the Surgeon General working along with Karen, and the group that you have, I know every one of them, you’re going to make big, big progress, very, very fast. So thank you very much. Thank you, Karen. Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you.
Thank you, General, and hello cadets. On behalf of our entire nation, let me say congratulations to the incredible West Point Class of 2020. Congratulations. Everyone have a good time, enjoy yourselves because we are here to celebrate your achievements, and great achievements they are. Let us also recognize your remarkable Superintendent, General Darryl Williams for his outstanding stewardship. General, thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Few words in the English language and few places in history have commanded as much awe and admiration as West Point. This premier military academy produces only the best of the best, the strongest of the strong, and the bravest of the brave. West Point is a universal symbol of American gallantry, loyalty, devotion, discipline, and great skill. There is no place on Earth I would rather be than right here with all of you. It’s a great honor.
Across this hallowed plain have passed many of the greatest and most fearsome soldiers that ever lived. They were heroes who drove thundering columns of Sherman tanks into the heart of a wicked empire. They were legends who unleashed the fury of American artillery upon our enemies on remote islands and distant shores. They were titans who strode through cannon blast and cavalry charge and stared down our foes through gray clouds of smoke and shrapnel. They were the Army Rangers who led the way up jagged cliffs, the airborne soldiers who rained down justice in the dark of night, the infantry whose very sight meant liberation was near, and the mighty forces who sent tyrants, terrorists, and sadistic monsters running scared through the gates of hell.
No evil force on Earth can match the noble power and righteous glory of the American warrior. I have no doubt that the young men and women before me today will add your names to this eternal chronicle of American heroes. You will go forth from this place adored by your countrymen, dreaded by your enemies, and respected by all throughout the world. Someday, generations of future West Point cadets will study your legacy. They will know your deeds, they will celebrate your triumphs, and they will proudly follow your example. To the 1,107 cadets who today become the newest officers in the most exceptional army ever to take the field of battle, I am here to offer America’s salute. Thank you for answering your nation’s call.
On this special occasion, we are delighted to be joined by Congressman Steve Womack, Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy, Assistant Secretary Casey Wardynski, and Army Chief of Staff General James McConville, an old grad from the class of 1981. Let’s also express our appreciation to General Curtis Buzzard, General Cindy Jebb, and all of the wonderful instructors, coaches, and faculty members who are continuing West Point’s two-century tradition of unrivaled excellence. To all of the parents, grandparents, and family members watching this ceremony from your beautiful home, even though you could not be here today, we know this day could never have happened without you. Your love and sacrifice have given America these phenomenal men and women. Cadets, please join me in sending your parents and families the heartfelt thanks that they so richly deserved. They’re all watching right now. Please. Thank you very much.
The depth and breadth of the United States military’s contributions to our society are an everlasting inspiration to us all. I want to take this opportunity to thank all members of America’s Armed Forces in every branch, active duty, National Guard, and reserve who stepped forward to help battle the invisible enemy, the new virus that came to our shores from a distant land called China. We will vanquish the virus, we will extinguish this plague. I also want to thank the men and women of our National Guard who respond with precision to so many recent challenges, from hurricanes and natural disasters, to ensuring peace, safety, and the constitutional rule of law on our streets. We thank every citizen who wears a uniform in selfless service to our nation.
The members of this class have come from every state in our union. You have come from the farms and the cities, from states big and small, and from every race, religion, color, and creed. But when you entered these grounds, you became part of one team, one family, proudly serving one great American nation. You became brothers and sisters pledging allegiance to the same timeless principles, joined together in a common mission to protect our country, to defend our people, and to carry on the traditions of freedom, equality, and liberty that so many gave their lives to secure. You exemplify the power of shared national purpose to transcend all differences and achieve true unity. Today, you graduate as one class, and you embody one noble creed, duty, honor, country. Every graduate on this field could have gone to virtually…
Every graduate on this field could have gone to virtually any top rank university that you wanted, you chose to devote your life to the defense of America. You came to West Point, because you know the truth, America is the greatest country in human history. And the United States military is the greatest force for peace and justice the world has ever known. The survival of America and the endurance of civilization itself depends on the men and women, just like each of you, depends on people who love their country with all their heart and energy and soul.
It depends on citizens who build, sustain, nurture, and defend institutions like this one. That is how societies are made and how progress is advanced. What has historically made America unique, is the durability of its institutions against the passions and prejudices of the moment. When times are turbulent, when the road is rough, what matters most is that which is permanent, timeless, enduring, and eternal.
It was on this soil that American Patriots held the most vital fortress in our war for independence. It was this school that gave us the men and women who fought and won a bloody war to extinguish the evil of slavery within one lifetime of our founding. It was the graduates of West Point, towering figures like McArthur, Patton, Eisenhower, and Bradley who led America to victory over the sinister Nazis and imperial fascists 75 years ago.
It was under the leadership of West Point graduates like the legendary General Matthew Ridgway, that the army was at the forefront of ending the terrible injustice of segregation. It was army strength that held the line against brutal opposition and depression from communism. And it has been thanks to patriots like you, that America has climbed to new heights of human achievement and national endeavor. This is your history, this is the legacy that each of you inherits. It is the legacy purchased with American blood at the crest of Little Round Top, on the crimson beaches of Normandy, in the freezing mud of Bastogne and the dense jungles of Vietnam.
It is the legacy of courageous, selfless, faithful patriots, who fought for every inch of dirt, with every ounce of strength and every last scrap of heart and drive and grit they had. And they did it because they believed in the undying principles of our founding. They did it because they cherish their homes, their faith, their family, and their flag. And they did it because when they came to this school, they were taught to hold fast to their love of our country, to cherish our heritage, learn from it and build upon it.
That is what young Americans are taught here at West Point. That is the legacy that you carry forward as second lieutenants in the United States army. And you must never forget it. Through four long years, you have honed your skills, trained your mind and body, overcome every obstacle and earned your place of pride in the Long Gray Line. You made it through the rigors of R-Day and Beast and intensity of CLDT and weeks of training in the blistering heat, you have pushed yourselves far beyond every limit imaginable.
Some of you have even pushed the limits a bit too much. So for any cadets who have not finished walking off their hours, as commander in chief, I hear by absolve all cadets on restriction for minor conduct offenses, and that is effective immediately. Congratulations. That’s a nice one, isn’t it? Don’t you feel better now? Surviving the 47 month experience is never easy, but only the class of 2020 can say it survived 48 months. And when it comes to bragging rights, no one can boast louder than the class that brought Navy’s 14 year football winning streak to a screeching halt. You did that. I happened to be there.
I happened to be there. That’s right. That was a big day. I was there. You beat Navy and brought the Commander-In-Chief’s Trophy back to West Point for two straight years. So we say, “Go, Army, go.” This graduating class secured more than 1000 victories for the Black Knights, including three bowl victories, 13 NCAA team appearances and a woman’s rugby championship, with the help of somebody that I just met, 2019 MVP, Sam Sullivan. Fantastic job. Thank you. Fantastic.
Five cadets won national boxing championships, and Adaya Queen brought home two. Brendan Brown, earned the title of Powerlifting National Champion. In academics, 38 cadets have earned fellowships to continue their studies, including First Captain Dane Van de Wall, who received one of the most prestigious awards in academia, the Rhodes Scholarship. Congratulations, Dane. It’s a great achievement. Thank you. Congratulations. Great achievement. But no one modeled the values of the soldiers…
But no one modeled the values of the soldier-scholar quite like Lindy Mooradian. Lindy earned both the highest overall class standing and the highest physical program score. She has published scientific research in a prominent journal and set five new records on the athletic track. Lindy, incredible job. Where is Lindy? Where is Lindy? For somebody that did so well, they didn’t give you a very good seat, Lindy. We have to talk about that. Congratulations.
Right now, America needs a class of cadets that lives by your motto, “With vision, we lead.” We need you to carry on the spirit of the great General Ulysses S. Grant. Soon after assuming overall command following three years of Union setbacks, General Grant encountered someone heading north to Washington during the Battle of the Wilderness. “If you see the President,” Grant said, “tell him from me that whatever happens, there will never be no turning back.” We need you to be as visionary as Patton, who, as a young man in 1917, became the first soldier assigned to the Army Tank Corps. One month into the job, he saw the future, writing, “If resistance is broken and the line is pierced, the tank must and will assume the role of pursuit cavalry and ride the enemy to death.” Under Patton’s leadership, that’s exactly what they did.
We need you to be as bold and determined as the immortal General Douglas MacArthur, who knew that the American soldier never, ever quits. After leaving the Philippines for Australia at a low point of the Pacific War in 1942, MacArthur famously vowed, “I shall return.” For two years, he then took great strategic risks and placed himself often in personal danger. On October 20th, 1944, MacArthur stepped off a landing boat, strode through knee-high water, and proclaimed, ” People of the Philippines, I have returned. By the grace of Almighty God, our forces stand again on Philippine soil.” He then called upon the island’s brave people to rise up and joined the fight. America’s momentum was unstoppable.
These great leaders were not afraid of what others might say about them. They didn’t care. They knew their duty was to protect our country. They knew the Army exists to preserve the Republic and the strong foundations upon which it stands: family, God, country, liberty, and justice. They were true, tough American Patriots. That is what our country needs, especially in these times, and that is what you are.
Each of you begins your career in the Army at a crucial moment in American history. We are restoring the fundamental principles, that the job of the American soldier is not to rebuild foreign nations, but defend and defend strongly our nation from foreign enemies. We are ending the era of endless wars. In its place is a renewed, clear-eyed focus on defending America’s vital interests. It is not the duty of US troops to solve ancient conflicts in faraway lands that many people have never even heard of. We are not the policemen of the world.
But let our enemies be on notice. If our people are threatened, we will never, ever hesitate to act, and when we fight, from now on, we will only fight to win. As MacArthur said, “In war, there is no substitute for victory.”
To ensure you have the very best equipment and technology available, my administration has embarked on a colossal rebuilding of the American Armed Forces, a record like no other. After years of devastating budget cuts and a military that was totally depleted from these endless wars, we have invested over two trillion, trillion, that’s with a T, dollars in the most powerful fighting force by far on the planet Earth. We are building new ships, bombers, jet fighters, and helicopters by the hundreds, new tanks, military satellites, rockets, and missiles, even a hypersonic missile that goes 17 times faster than the fastest missile currently available in the world and can hit a target 1000 miles away within 14 inches from center point.
For the first time in 70 years, we established a new branch of the United States military, the Space Force. It’s a big deal.
In recent years, America’s warriors have made clear to all the high costs of threatening the American people. The savage ISIS caliphate has been 100% destroyed under the Trump administration and its barbaric leader, al-Baghdadi, is gone, killed, over. The world’s number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, is likewise dead. As Commander in Chief, I never forget for one instant the immense sacrifices we ask of those who wear this nation’s uniform. Already you have known the crushing pain of losing a brother in arms. Today we remember an extraordinary cadet who made the supreme sacrifice in an accident last year, CJ Morgan. We are deeply moved to be joined by his father, Chris.
Deeply moved to be joined by his father, Christopher Morgan, and [C.J. 00:24:08] was something very special. Christopher is a Secret Service agent, a tough guy, great guy, great son is looking down right now. Christopher, I want you to know that we will carry C.J.’s blessed memory in our hearts forever. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Tomorrow, America will celebrate a very important anniversary, the 245th birthday of the United States Army. Unrelated, going to be my birthday also. I don’t know if that happened by accident. Did that happen by accident [inaudible 00:24:59], but it’s a great day because of that Army birthday, and as you know the Army’s first commander in chief, General George Washington, called the fort that stood on this majestic point the most important post in America. It’s strategic location on the Hudson River was vital to our war for independence. If British ships gained control of this river, they would have divided our young nation in two so American soldiers stretched a massive metal chain across the waters of the Hudson from West Point all the way to Constitution Island. I saw a piece of that chain. It’s incredible. No enemy ship even dared try to cross. Every link in that great chain was formed from over 100 pounds of pure American iron, mined from American soil, and made with American pride.
Together those links formed an unbreakable line of defense. Standing here before you more than two centuries later, it is clearer than ever that General Washington’s words still hold true. West Point is still the indispensable post for America, the vital ground that must not lose, and the survival of our nation still depends on the great chain reaching out from this place, one made not of iron, but of flesh and blood, of memory and spirit, of sheer faith and unyielding courage. Today each of you becomes another link in that unbroken chain, forged in the crucible known as the United States Military Academy, the greatest on Earth. It has given you soldiers that you could rely on to your right and to your left and now we are entrusting you with the most noble task any warrior has ever had, the privilege to carry out the task of preserving American liberty.
As long as you remain loyal, faithful and true, then our enemies don’t even stand a chance. Our rights will never be stolen. Our freedoms will never be trampled. Our destiny will never be denied and the United States of America will never be defeated. With the grace of God and the heroes of West Point, America will always prevail. Nothing will stand in your way. Nothing will slow you down and nothing will stop the West Point Class of 2020 from achieving a true and lasting victory. God bless you, God bless the United States Army, and God bless America. Congratulations, thank you very much. Thank you.
The class president, Joshua Phillips, will now come to the dais for the presentation of the class gift.
Thank you very much. My fellow Americans, my first and highest duty as president is to defend our great country and the American people. I swore an oath to uphold the laws of our nation and that is exactly what I will do. All Americans were rightly sickened and revolted by the brutal death of George Floyd. My administration is fully committed that for George and his family, justice will be served. He will not have died in vain, but we cannot allow the righteous cries and peaceful protestors to be drown out by an angry mob. The biggest victims of the rioting are peace loving citizens in our poorest communities and as their president, I will fight to keep them safe. I will fight to protect you. I am your president of law and order and an ally of all peaceful protesters. But in recent days, our nation has been gripped by professional anarchists, violent mobs, arsonists, looters, criminals, rioters, Antifa and others.
A number of state and local governments have failed to take necessary action to safeguard their residents. Innocent people have been savagely beaten like the young man in Dallas, Texas, who was left dying on the street or the woman in upstate New York, viciously attacked by dangerous thugs. Small business owners have seen the dreams utterly destroyed. New York’s finest have been hit in the face with bricks, brave nurses who have battled the virus are afraid to leave their homes. A police precinct has been overrun here in the nation’s Capitol, the Lincoln Memorial and the World War II Memorial have been vandalized. One of our most historic churches was set a blaze. A federal officer in California, an African American enforcement hero was shot and killed. These are not acts of peaceful protest, these are acts of domestic terror. The destruction of innocent life and the spilling of innocent blood is an offense to humanity and a crime against God.
America needs creation not destruction, cooperation not contempt, security not anarchy, healing not hatred, justice not chaos. This is our and we will succeed 100% we will succeed. Our country always wins. That is why I am taking immediate presidential action to stop the violence and restore security and safety in America. I am mobilizing all available, federal resources, civilian and military, to stop the rioting and looting to end the destruction and arson and to protect the rights of law abiding Americans, including your second amendment rights. Therefore, the following measures are going into effect immediately. First, we are ending the riots and lawlessness that has spread throughout our country. We will end it now. Today I have strongly recommended to every governor to deploy the national guard in sufficient numbers that we dominate the streets, mayors and governors must establish an overwhelming law enforcement presence until the violence has been quelled.
If a city or state refuses to take the actions that are necessary to defend the life and property of their residents, then I will deploy the United States military and quickly solve the problem for them. I am also taking swift and decisive action to protect our great Capitol Washington DC. What happened in this city last night was a total disgrace. As we speak, I am dispatching thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers, military personnel, and law enforcement offices to stop the rioting, looting, vandalism assaults and the wanton destruction of property. We are putting everybody on warning our seven o’clock curfew will be strictly enforced. Those who threatened innocent life and property will be arrested, detained and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I want the organizers of this terror to be on notice that you will face severe criminal penalties and lengthy sentences in jail.
This includes Antifa and others who are leading instigators of this violence. One law and order and that is what it is. One law, we have one beautiful law and once that is restored and fully restored, we will help you, we will help your business and we will help your family. America is founded upon the rule of law. It is the of our prosperity, our freedom and our very way of life, but where there is no law, there is no opportunity, where there is no justice there is no Liberty, where there is no safety there is no future. We must never give in to anger or hatred if malice or violence rains, then none of us is free. I take these actions today with firm resolve and with a true and passionate love for our country by far our greatest days lie ahead. Thank you very much and now I’m going to pay my respects to a very, very special place. Thank you very much.
I want to thank our great Vice President for your fearless and tireless commitment to fulfilling America’s destiny in space. Thank you very much, Mike. Great job. Great job. We’re all so grateful to Mike’s wonderful wife, Karen, for being here and for all she does for our country. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Before going further on this exciting day for all America in space, I want to say a few words about the situation in Minnesota. The death of George Floyd on the streets of Minneapolis was a grave tragedy. It should never have happened. It has filled Americans all over the country with horror, anger and grief. Yesterday, I spoke to George’s family and expressed the sorrow of our entire nation for their loss. I stand before you as a friend and ally to every American seeking justice and peace and I stand before you in firm opposition to anyone exploiting this tragedy to loot, rob, attack and menace. Healing, not hatred, justice, not chaos, are the mission at hand.
The police officers involved in this incident have been fired from their jobs. One officer has already been arrested and charged with murder. State and federal authorities are carrying out an investigation to see what further charges may be warranted, including against sadly, the other three. In addition, my administration has opened a civil rights investigation and I have asked the Attorney General and the Justice Department to expedite it. I understand the pain that people are feeling. We support the right of peaceful protestors and we hear their pleas, but what we are now seeing on the streets of our cities has nothing to do with justice or with peace. The memory of George Floyd is being dishonored by rioters, looters and anarchists. The violence and vandalism is being led by Antifa and other radical left wing groups who are terrorizing the innocent, destroying jobs, hurting businesses and burning down buildings.
The main victims of this horrible, horrible situations are the citizens who live in these once lovely communities. The mobs are devastating the life’s work of good people and destroying their dream. Right now, America needs creation, not destruction, cooperation, not contempt, security, not anarchy and there will be no anarchy. Civilization must be cherished, defended, and protected. The voices of law abiding citizens must be heard and heard very loudly. We cannot and must not allow a small group of criminals and vandals to wreck our cities and lay waste to our communities. We must defend the rights of every citizen to live without violence, prejudice, or fear. We support the overwhelming majority of police officers who are incredible in every way and devoted public servants. They keep our city safe, protect our communities from gangs and drugs and risk their own lives for us every day.
No one is more upset than fellow law enforcement offices by this small handful who failed to abide by their oath to serve and protect. My administration will stop mob violence and we’ll stop it cold. It does not serve the interest of justice or any citizen of any race, color, or creed for the government to give into anarchy, abandoned police precincts, or allow communities to be burned to the ground, won’t happen. Those making excuses or justifications for violence are not helping the downtrodden, but delivering new anguish and new pain. From day one of my administration, we’ve made it a top priority to build up distressed communities and revitalize our crumbling inner cities. We fought hard with Senator Tim Scott ___ and many others to create opportunity zones, helping to draw a surge of new investment to the places in our country that need it most.
We must all work together as a society to expand opportunity and to create a future of greater dignity and promise for all of our people. We must forge a partnership with community leaders, local law enforcement and the faith community to restore hope. Radical left criminals, thugs, and others all throughout our country and throughout the world, will not be allowed to set communities ablaze. We won’t let it happen. It harms those who have the least, and we will be protecting those who have the least. The leadership of the National Guard and the Department of Justice are now in close communication with state and city officials in Minnesota and we’re coordinating our efforts with local law enforcement all across our nation. In America, justice is never achieved at the hands of an angry mob. I will not allow angry mobs to dominate, won’t happen. It is essential that we protect the crown jewel of American democracy, the rule of law and our independent system of justice.
Every citizen in every community has the right to be safe in their workplace, safe in their homes and safe in our city streets. This is the sacred right of all Americans that I am totally determined to defend and will defend. My administration will always stand against violence, mayhem and disorder. We will stand with the family of George Floyd, with the peaceful protestors and with every law abiding citizen who wants decency, civility, safety, and security. We are working toward a more just society, but that means building up, not tearing down.
But that means building up, not tearing down, joining hands, not hurling fests, standing in solidarity, not surrendering to hostility. Moments ago as we went and just the launch of two great American astronauts into space, we were filled with the sense of pride and unity that brings us together as Americans. That same spirit, which powered our astronauts to the moon has also helped lift our country to ever greater heights of justice and opportunity throughout our history. So today, as we mark a renewed commitment to America’s future in space, a tremendous commitment it is. Let us also commit to a brighter future for all of our citizens right here on earth. When Americans are united, there is nothing we cannot do. From day one of my administration, we put America first.
This afternoon, I am delighted to be with you at Cape Canaveral in this storied home of American daring aspiration and drive. This is the first big space message in 50 years, think of that, and it is an honor to be delivering it. Today as we gather in this special place to celebrate not only the launch of a new spacecraft, but also our Nation’s bold and triumphant return to the stars, it’s a special day. Moments ago, the world bore witness to the flight of the first new manned U.S. spacecraft in nearly 40 years since the space shuttle launched in 1981, a long time ago. I am thrilled to announce that the SpaceX Dragon capsule has successfully reached low earth orbit and that our astronauts are safe and sound. With this launch, the decades of last years and little action are officially over. A new age of American ambition has now begun. Past leaders put the United States at the mercy of foreign nations to send our astronauts into orbit. Not anymore. Today, we once again, proudly launch American astronauts on American rockets, the best in the world from right here on American soil.
Those of us who saw the spectacular and unforgettable liftoff this afternoon watched more than an act of history. We watched an act of heroism. Every time our astronauts climb aboard a rocket, which is many, many stories of only engine and fuel and vault across the sky, they display breathtaking valor. What Colonel Douglas Hurley and Colonel Robert Behnken did this afternoon was pure American genius and courage. They joined the ranks of just seven prior American astronauts who have made the perilous maiden voyage to test a new class of spacecraft. The names of Hurley and Behnken will stand in the history books alongside those of legends like Alan Shepard, Gus Grissom, John Young. Now these brave and selfless astronauts will continue their mission to advance the cause of human knowledge as they proceed to the International Space Station before returning to Earth. We wish them Godspeed on their journey and as one proud nation, we salute their fearless service. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
I also want to send our Nation’s gratitude to the wives of these valiant astronauts, both of whom are astronauts themselves, Karen Nyberg and Megan McArthur. We join them in praying for our heroes safe return. As you know, this spring, our nation has endured the pain and hardship of a global pandemic. As we usher in a new era of manned spacecraft, we are reminded that America is always in the process of transcending great challenges. Our Nation is blessed with limitless reserves of talent, tenacity, and resolve. The same spirit of American determination that sends our people into space, will conquer this disease on Earth. It should have never happened. Nothing, not even gravity itself can hold Americans down or keep America back. We are grateful to NASA Administrator, Jim Bridenstine and Director of Kennedy Space Center, Bob Cabana, for welcoming us this evening. Very special. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great job.
Come a long way in three and a half years, Jim haven’t we? A long way. To the incredible men and women of NASA from here at Kennedy Space Center to the Johnson Space Center in Texas, we love you too, to NASA Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, Ohio, thank you all for working so hard to make this day a reality. We have many other great days almost ready to happen. Also with us are many members of my cabinet, including our great new DNI, John Radcliffe. Thank you, John. Thank you. We have a great friend of mine, special man ran a great, great campaign, Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis. Thank you, Ron. Thank you, Ron. Your senators, Rick Scott and Marco Rubio. Thank you very much. Thank you. Leader Kevin McCarthy, Kevin, thank you very much. Great job you do Kevin. And representatives, Matt Gaetz, John Rutherford, Michael Waltz, Bill Posey, Gus Bilirakis, Daniel Webster, Brian Mast, Elise Stefanik, Bill Flores, Brian Babin, Rodney Davis, Roger Marshall and Steven Palazzo. Thank you very much. Thank you.
What a great group of people. They’re warriors, they’re really warriors. They helped so much get this done and so many other things. With us also-
With us also, is our Air Force Chief Of Staff General David Goldfein. General, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, General. Thank you. And Chief of Space Operation, the first ever named, and now a member of the joint chiefs of staff, because we created the United States Space Force. General Jay Raymond. Thank you very much, Jay. Thank you, Jay.
And senior members also of our great United States military, has never been stronger than it is right now. Also Attorney General of Florida, Ashley Moody, and Chief Financial Officer of Florida, Jimmy Patronis and many other distinguished guests. Thank you very much for being here, we appreciate it. I especially want to congratulate someone who truly embodies the American ethos, a big thinking and risk taking. After achieving success as an internet entrepreneur, he could’ve spent his fortune doing anything, including yachting, lots of things, he could do lots of things. But in 2002, he began pouring tens of millions of dollars of his own money into research and development for a new rocket. He’s a little different than a lot of other people. He liked rockets. He assembled a crew of some of the greatest minds and talent in American aerospace. In the years since SpaceX has become the first private company to develop and successfully launch its own rocket into orbit. The first to launch and recover its own capsule. And of course, moments ago, SpaceX became the first private company to put humans into orbit around the earth. Elon Musk, congratulations. Congratulations, Elon. Thanks Elon. For Elon and 8,000 SpaceX employees, today is the fulfillment of a dream almost two decades in the making. For years on end, they have worked hand in hand with NASA, sculpting aluminum, tightening valves, tuning nozzles, testing parachutes, and filling massive tanks with thousands and thousands of pounds of kerosene and liquid oxygen. Today, the groundbreaking partnership between NASA and SpaceX has given our nation the gift of an unmatched power, a state of the art spaceship to put our astronauts into orbit at a fraction of the cost of the Space Shuttle and it’s much better. From now on the United States will leverage the fast growing capabilities of our commercial sector and the finest pieces of real estate on Earth, which you need very badly, to send U.S. astronauts into space. Under NASA’s commercial crew program, we will use rockets and spacecraft designed, built, owned, and launched by private American companies at a fixed price for the American taxpayer. Today’s launch makes clear the commercial space industry is the future. The modern world was built by risk takers and renegade fierce competitors, skilled craftsmens, captains of industry who pursued opportunities no one else saw and envisioned what no one else could ever think of seeing. The United States will harness the unrivaled creativity and speed of our private sector to stride even further into the unknown. This launch also marks an exciting turning point for NASA. This agency will now focus its unmatched expertise like nobody’s ever seen and power and integrity to do what NASA does better than anyone else and it’s not even close. Embark on the most difficult, most daring, most audacious missions in the history of humankind. When I first came into office three and a half years ago, NASA had lost its way and the excitement, energy and ambition as almost everybody in this room knows, was gone. There was grass growing through the cracks of your concrete runways, not a pretty sight, not a pretty sight at all.
The last administration presided over the closing of the Space Shuttle and almost all of the giant facility that keeps so many people working, so many brilliant minds going. People were crying, they were devastated, but now it’s the greatest of its kind anywhere in the world and we’ll get greater and greater with years to come. I promise you that. We have created the envy of the world and will soon be landing on Mars. And we’ll soon have the greatest weapons ever imagined in history. I’ve already seen designs and even I can’t believe it. The United States has regained our place of prestige as the world leader. As has often been stated, you can’t be number one on Earth, if you are number two in space. And we are not going to be number two anywhere. Nowhere is this more true than with our military, which we have completely rebuilt. Under my administration, we have invested two and a half trillion dollars in new planes, ships, submarines, tanks, missiles, rockets, anything you can think of. And last year I signed the law, creating the sixth branch of that already very famous United States Armed Forces, the Space Force.
For every citizen who has eagerly waited for America to reignite those engines of will, confidence and imagination that put a man on the moon, I stand before you to say you need wait no longer. Through NASA’s Artemis program, the United States is preparing for a crude mission to Mars. Earlier this week, I saw the Orion capsules being worked on in this building as part of the Artemis Moon to Mars program. Those capsules will soon return Americans-
Those capsules will soon return Americans to lunar orbit for the first time in over 50 years, half a century. By 2024, our astronauts will return to the lunar surface to establish a permanent presence and the launching pad to Mars. And the first woman on the moon will be an American woman, and the first nation to land on Mars will be the United States of America.
Since I signed the order to establish these goals shortly after taking office, we have made rapid gains. A new 22,000 pound capsule is already built. The next generation of spacesuits are already made. Colossal rockets are now being tested, and the contracts for three separate lunar landers have been awarded and signed, and they are magnificent. In the years ahead, America will go bigger, bolder, further, faster, and America will go first. America will always be first. To be certain, we will meet the adversity and hardship along the way. There may even be tragedy because that is the danger of space. There’s nothing we can do about that. The power that we’re talking about is unrivaled. It’s nothing we can do about problems, but we’ll have very few of them. We will confront all of those challenges, knowing that the quest for understanding is the oldest and deepest hope in our souls.
The innate human desire to explore and innovate is what propels the engines of progress and the march of civilization. We will preserve and persevere, and we will ensure a future of American dominance in space. To that end, over the last three years, I reestablished the National Space Council. I issued a directive cutting red tape for innovative space companies, such as SpaceX. We created the world’s first comprehensive space traffic management system. Last month, I signed an executive order establishing U.S. policy for the recovery and use of space resources and minerals. Administrator Bridenstine announced the Artemis Accords to govern the future of space exploration development. Together, we will assert America’s rightful heritage as the greatest spacefaring nation on the planet. And already it’s not even close. In the half a century since the United States stopped sending astronauts to deep into space, 1972, no other country has ever done it.
The reasons are simple: cost, technological complexity, and tremendous danger. For instance, I was told that the rocket you just witnessed had to be launched within one second, or it would be impossible for it to hit its target. And I was here two days ago, and I said to Jim, “Jim, it’s okay, why don’t you wait five or 10 minutes?” And he said, “Sir, we only have a window of one second.” And I walked out of here, shaking my head. “Is that true, Jim?” “Yes, it’s true.” Space travel is not a feat of engineering alone. It’s also a moral endeavor, a measure of a nation’s vision, its willpower, its place in the world.
Exploration is a test of our values and of our faith. America is a nation defined by its commitment to discovery, to solve mysteries, to chart the unknown, to press the limits, to achieve the fullest expression of life’s potential and to ensure that America is the nation that always leads the way and especially in space. This evening, I am more confident than ever before that America stands poised to thrive in this grand undertaking. It’s incredible. We are a nation of pioneers. We are the people who crossed the ocean, carved out a foothold on a vast continent, settled a great wilderness, and then set our eyes upon the stars. This is our history and this is our destiny.
Now, like our ancestors before us, we are venturing out to explore a new magnificent frontier. It’s called space. Our most daring feats, our most epic journeys, our biggest adventures, and our finest days are just beginning. America’s proudest moments are still ahead. We are on the verge of our most exciting years, and next year may be the most exciting of all, you just watch. So today as our brave American astronauts shake the earth and blaze a trail of fire and steel into the heavens, we proclaim for all to hear that we have not yet tested the full strength of the American character, and the world has not yet seen the full glory of the American spirit. For our country, for our children, and for humanity’s march into the stars, the best is yet to come.
It was a great honor for me to deliver this speech. God bless our brave astronauts now soaring through the heavens. God bless the men and women of NASA and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I stand before you at this noble fortress of American liberty to pay tribute to the immortal souls who fought and died to keep us free.
Earlier today, the First Lady and I laid a wreath in their sacred honor at Arlington National Cemetery. Now we come together to salute the flag. They gave their lives to so boldly and brilliantly defend. And we pledge in their cherish memories that this majestic flag will proudly fly forever.
We’re joined for today’s ceremony by Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, Secretary of the Interior, David Bernhardt, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, Congressman Andy Harris, and a number of service members and veterans of the Armed Forces.
The dignity, daring, and devotion of the American military is unrivaled anywhere in history and any place in the world.
In recent months, our nation and the world have been engaged in a new form of battle against an invisible enemy. Once more, the men and women of the United States military have answered the call to duty and raced into danger. Tens of thousands of service members and National Guardsmen are on the front lines of our war against this terrible virus, caring for patients, delivering critical supplies, and working night and day to safeguard our citizens.
As one nation, we mourn alongside every single family that has lost loved ones, including the families of our great veterans.
Together we will vanquish the virus, and America will rise from this crisis to new and even greater heights.
As our brave warriors have shown us from the nation’s earliest days, in America, we are the captains of our own fate. No obstacle, no challenge, and no threat is a match for the sheer determination of the American people. This towering spirit permeates every inch of the hollowed soil beneath our feet.
In this place more than 200 years ago, American patriots stood their ground and repelled a British invasion in the Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812. Early on a September morning in 1814, the British fleet launched an assault on this peninsula. From the Harbor, some 30 British warships attack this stronghold. Rockets rained down, bombs burst in the air, and the deck of one ship, a gallant young American was held captive. His name was Francis Scott Key. For 25 hours, Key watched in dismay as fire crashed down upon this ground. But through torrents of rain and smoke and the den of battle, Key could make out 15 broad stripes and 15 bright stars barraged and battered but still there.
American Forces did not waiver. They did not retreat. They stared down the invasion and they held that they had to endure, the fact is they held like nobody could have held before. They held this fort. The British retreated. Independence was saved. Francis Scott Key was so inspired by the sight of our flag in the battle waged that the very grounds that he fought on became hallowed. And he wrote a poem. His ageless words became the anthem of our nation, The Star Spangled Banner.
Every time we sing our anthem, every time it’s rousing chorus swells our hearts with pride, we renew the eternal bonds of loyalty to our fallen heroes. We think of the soldiers who spend their final heroic moments on distant battlefields to keep us safe at home. We remember the young Americans who never got the chance to grow old but whose legacy will outlive us all. In every generation, these Intrepid souls kiss goodbye to their families and loved ones. They took flight in plane, set sail in ships, and marched into battle with our flag fighting for our country, defending our people.
When the cause of liberty was in jeopardy, American warriors carried that flag through ice and snow to victory at Trenton. They hoisted it up the mass of great battleships in Manila Bay. They fought through hell to raise it high atop a remote Island in the Pacific Ocean called Iwo Jima. From the Philippine Sea to Fallujah, from New Orleans to Normandy, from Saratoga to Sipan, from the Battle of Baltimore to the Battle of the Bulge, Americans gave their lives to carry that flag through piercing waves, blazing fires, sweltering deserts, and storms of bullets and shrapnel. They climbed atop enemy tanks, jumped out of burning airplanes, and leaped on live grenades. Their love was boundless. Their devotion was without limit. Their courage was beyond measure.
Army Green Beret Captain Daniel Eggers grew up in Cape Coral, Florida determined to continue his family tradition of military service. And it was a great tradition. He attended the legendary Citadel Military College in South Carolina. Soon he met a beautiful cadet, Rebecca. They fell in love, married and had two sons. In 2004, Daniel left for his second deployment in Afghanistan. On the morning of May 29th, Daniel and his team were courageously pursuing a group of deadly terrorists when he was killed by an improvised explosive device. This week is the 16th anniversary of the day that Daniel made the supreme sacrifice for our nation. He laid down his life to defeat evil and to save his fellow citizens.
At the time of his death, Daniel sons Billy and John were three and five years old. Today, they have followed in Daniel’s footsteps, both students at the Citadel planning to serve in the military. They’re amazing mom Rebecca has now served more than 23 years in the US Army. Everywhere she goes she wears Daniel’s gold star pin on the lapel of her uniform.
Colonel Rebecca Eggers and her two sons are here today, along with Daniel’s father, Bill, and mother Margot. To the entire Eggers family, your sacrifice is beyond our ability to comprehend to repay. Today, we honor Daniel’s incredible life and exceptional valor, and we promise you that we will treasure his blessed memory forever. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much, please. Thank you. Thank you.
Great family. Thank you very much.
To every gold star family here today and all across our land, our debt to you is infinite and everlasting. We stand with you today and all days to come remembering and grieving for America’s greatest heroes. In spirit and strength, in loyalty and love, in character and courage, they were larger than life itself. They were angels sent from above, and they are now rejoined with God in the glorious kingdom of Heaven.
Wherever the stars and stripes fly at our schools, our churches, town halls, firehouses, and national monuments, it is made possibly because there are extraordinary Americans who are willing to brave death so that we can live in freedom and live in peace.
In the two centuries since Francis Scott Key wrote about the stirring site of our flag in battle, countless other American Patriots have given their own testimony about the meaning of the flag.
One was World War II veteran, Jim Krebs from Sunbury, Ohio. Jim and his twin brother Jack fought side by side in General Patton’s Third Army. At the Battle of the Bulge, the twins volunteered for a dangerous mission. Together they took out four enemy tanks, two machine gun nests at a mother position that was very powerful. Loaded up with mortars, Jim’s brother Jack was mortally wounded. Jim held his dying brother in his arms, praying together as his twin passed away. Jim fought to victory and came home to build a great American life.
He married, had children, became an electrical engineer, and taught young people about war. As an old man, Jim was asked, what about the American flag and what it meant to him? Jim said, “The flag to me is as precious as the freedom that the flag stands for. It’s as precious to me as the thousands of lives that have been lost defending her. It’s that important to me. It gave me a value of life that I could have never gotten any other way. It gave me a value of my Lord, my family, my friends, loved ones, and especially my country. What more could I ask?”
Last month, Jim died peacefully at his home at the age of 94. This afternoon we are greatly honored to be joined by his grandsons, Andy and Ron. Please, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for being here.
Today as we remember the sacrifice of Jim’s brother Jack, we honor Jim service and we’re moved by his beautiful words. Andy and Ron, thank you for being here to remember your grandfather and his brother and what they did for us all. And most importantly, what they stood for,
From generation to generation, heroes like these have poured out their blood and sweat and heart and tears for our country. Because of them, America is strong and safe and mighty and free. Because of them, two centuries on The Star Spangled Banner still proudly waves. For as long as our flag flies in the sky above, the names of these fallen warriors will be woven into its threads. For as long as we have citizens willing to follow their example, to carry on their burden, to continue their legacy, then America’s cause will never fail and American freedom will never ever die.
Today we honor the heroes we have lost. We pray for the loved ones they left behind, and with God is our witness, we solemnly vowed to protect, preserve, and cherish this land they gave their last breath to defend and to defend so proudly. Thank you. God bless our military. God bless the memory of the fallen. God bless our gold star families, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. You’re my friends and you’ve been supporting me right from the beginning. I appreciate that you’re here. We’re here for you, and I told you when you want to come back with your 600,000, we’re ready to take you, but you’re going to give us a little display on those beautiful bikes. And you’re going to be… I’ve never seen anyone do that actually. You must have special privileges. I’ve never seen anybody ride through here. But I want to welcome you, and I want to welcome my friends. You’re the Rolling To Remember, and that’s what it is Rolling To Remember, and we will be commemorating Memorial Day, it’s a big thing, together.
Our nation pays a mortal tribute to the extraordinary courage, unflinching loyalty, and unselfish love, and supreme devotion of the American heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice, and that’s what you’re here for. It’s the ultimate sacrifice, and it is indeed. They laid down their lives to ensure the survival of American freedom. Their names are etched forever into the hearts of our people and the memory of our nation, and some of you it’s been very close, very, very close. It’s very close to your heart. We’ll cherish them, and our gold star families, for all time. We take good care of them. They’re very special to us.
Justice will always remember the nearly 82,000 Americans missing in action. We’re joined today by Secretary Of Veterans Affairs, Robert Wilkie. Whereas Robert? Hi Robert. Great job you’re doing Robert. We got the Veterans Choice and Accountability Choices when they wait for two months to see a doctor, before they have to wait like a few hours, they go outside, they get themselves a good doctor, we pay the bill and they get taken care of. The stories were legendary. You don’t hear bad things about the VA anymore. You used to turn on every night, you’d see a horror show. So I want to thank you. You’ve done a fantastic job, Robert. What a great job.
Accountability also, VA accountability sounds easy, but when you have civil service, and you have unions, and you have all of this. For 40, 50 years, they’ve been trying to get rid of it. They don’t take our take care of our vets, we fire them. Before you couldn’t. They were sadists, they were thieves. And I think you’ve let go of more than 8,000 people, who were terrible. They’d been trying to fire him for years. They didn’t take care of our vets, just the opposite. They were horrible. Now they’re gone, we got them out. So that’s a big thing. So it’s Robert Wilkie. Thank you very much.
National commander of M-VETS, Jan Brown. Where is Jan? Jan, thank you very much. Good job. Good job you’ve done here. You got this very special group, they’re going to be doing a very special ride. I’m going to get to watch you, I hope. Right? Because sometimes I look at those bikes, they’re pretty tough. And actor Robert Patrick, who’s been in many films and television shows, I know that well. Most notably as T-1000 in Terminator Two. That’s not too bad. You’re looking good. You’re looking good Robert.
I want to especially recognize the legendary M-VETS riders who made the Rolling To Remember possible for 32 years, Rolling Thunder, my friends, carried out a ride of remembrance, and now we’re going to continue that onward. And the Rolling Thunder people were terrific already, and everybody, they really were. We had a good relationship with them. You know that, right? Sir, you’re going to say hello to [inaudible 00:07:29]. And I heard they were giving him a hard time a couple of years ago, and I said, “Nope, no hard time.” But people do get older. They get a little bit, he said, “I’m getting a little older.” So, but [inaudible 00:07:43] is terrific, and the whole group is terrific.
Thank you for keeping this noble tradition alive and for preserving the memory of those who are missing, but never forgotten, never forgotten. My administration will spare no effort or resources to support the men and the women who defend our nation. We’ve secured over $2.1 trillion in funding, to completely rebuild American military with, and think of that 2.1 trillion, 2.1. Not billion, it used to be million, and then about 10 years ago, you started hearing billion, and now you’re starting to hit trillion. I don’t know if that’s a good thing or a bad thing. But it’s good when we’re spending $2.1 trillion in funding on our military, completely rebuild the military.
Our American military now has the greatest equipment, the finest equipment it’s ever had. It’s been entirely rebuilt. Some of the equipment is still coming, all made in America, everything. And when I came here, and you people knew it better than anybody, our military was depleted just like the shelves were empty from medical equipment, we didn’t have ventilators, we didn’t have testing, we didn’t have anything. And we have great testing, the best in the world. We have great ventilators. We’re making thousands and thousands of them, and we’re actually now so loaded with ventilators that we’re helping other countries, and therefore we’re saving lives also.
But our American military with the 281, that’s a lot of planes, F-35 fighter jets. The best in the world. 453 Abrams tanks, 14,400 tactical combat vehicles, two aircraft carriers, 36 additional battleships, and much more. All made in the USA. So importantly, we’re giving our service members the resources, tools, and equipment they need. We’re even getting brand new beautiful uniforms, it doesn’t sound like much, if I told you what it costs, it’s a lot for the army. The army has new uniforms, and they are gorgeous.
We passed the largest reform of the Department of Veterans Affairs in the, I think, in the history of the department, including VA Accountability. And I said, VA Choice, we’ve removed 8,500 VA workers who weren’t doing their job, who were taking advantage of our country and hurting our vets. The percentage of veterans reporting, they trust services. Think of that. They trust services. So they report and they say they trust services, has reached the highest in the history of the VA. Secretary, that’s a big statement. So the percentage of veterans reporting that they trust the VA and the VA services is now the highest in the history of this service. Satisfaction with the VA. Outpatient care has reached 89%, and we’re not going to rest until we have it in a hundred percent, Robert.
I also formed the PREVENTS, it’s called PREVENTS Taskforce. Well, you guys, how many are vets here? Big difference between now and the way it used to be, right? Big difference. I also formed the PREVENTS… Again, be careful when I asked that question, sometimes somebody can say, “Oh, we used to like it better.” That would not be good. That would go on the fake news immediately. That’s all they cover. So I have to be very careful, but thank you. I also formed the PREVENTS Taskforce to fight the tragedy of veteran suicide, which is an unbelievable tragedy. And we actually have medications that we’re working on, they have one from Johnson &amp; Johnson, which is an inhaler and it’s been very effective. We’ve voted thousands of units of that, thousands and thousands. And we’re using it.
When the invisible enemy struck our country, my administration quickly secured VA medical facilities. We’re keeping the sacred covenant, we’re protecting those who sacrifice so much to protect us. I was very early, in fact, out of many, many people, I was the only one that wanted to do it. I guess I was the only one that mattered, but I kept China out of the United States. I put a ban on China in January. Then I took a lot of heat, Joe Biden said, “Oh, he’s xenophobic.” But a month later he said, I was right. As you know, Dr. Fauci, a good guy, he said, you don’t need to do that, and then later on, when he saw that I did it, and when we kept thousands, tens of thousands of people out, he said, “Donald Trump saved thousands of lives, tens of thousands of lives.” And we did.
So we did it very early, and that was very important, the ban on Chinese people, people from China coming in. Because I was seeing how badly infected the one area, Wuhan, was. So I put a ban on, and everybody thought… Nancy Pelosi a month later was in Chinatown, in San Francisco. She’s dancing in the streets of Chinatown trying to say, “It’s okay to come to the United States. It’s fine. It’s wonderful, come on in. Bring your infection with you.” And then she said, “He should have done it earlier.” About me. And she’s dancing a month later. These people are sick.
Anyway, last year I signed the National POW/MIA Flag Act, which requires that all federal buildings fly the POW/MIA flag in addition to the American flag in the months. And you see them all over Washington now. And they could be separate from the flag. You could do a separate placement or you could put it under the flag. And the month since that righteous flag has proudly flown over the White House, you’ve probably noticed it today. But that reminder is the work left, and we have work left, but we have to get it. We have to win the White House, otherwise a lot of the great things that we’ve done, we’re going to do great with our economy. We’re going to see… You’ll already see it starting to happen. We’re trying to get some governors, they’re not opening up, but they’ll be opening up pretty quickly.
Today I just spoke to CDC, we want our churches and our places of faith and worship, we want them to open. And CDC is going to be, I believe today, they’re going to be issuing a very strong recommendation, and I’m going to be talking about that in a little while. But they’re going to be opening up very soon. We want our churches to open, we want our places of faith, synagogues, we want them open and that’s going to start happening. I consider them essential, and that’s one of the things we’re saying, we’re going to make that essential. They have places essential that aren’t essential, and they open, and yet the churches aren’t allowed to open, and the synagogues. Again, places of faith, mosques, places of faith. So that’s going to see that. You’re going to see that.
I just want to say you’ve been tremendous supporters of mine. The bikers, I call them the bikers, the bikers, for whatever reason you liked me from the beginning, and I liked you from the beginning. And I remember went to Hilton Head, and I went to other places and it’d be thousands of bikes outside, and they were all in support. And they actually said, “No, we don’t have to, because there was no room.” We’ve never had an empty seat from the time I came down the escalator with our future First Lady. Who would’ve thought, right? Remember they were saying, “What’s he doing?” But there were a lot of people that thought we’d win, and we won. And we won pretty easily too. 306 to 223. That’s pretty easy.
We went through a primary, that was tough. And you were there with me. We went through an election, that was tough. And you were there with me. Always there, the bikers. I think, what do I have? 98%, 95. We’re trying to find who are the 3% or the 2%, we’re looking for them. We’re all looking for them, but I’ll never forget I made a speech in a place that was packed. You couldn’t get in. I said, “Fellas, I’ll do a second one.” They said, “No, no, we don’t have to hear. We know what you’re about. We know where you’re coming from, sir. We’re here to protect you. We’re not here to listen. We’re here to protect you.” I never forgot it. I never felt so safe. And there were a lot of rough guys in that little group of about a thousand bikes, by the way, maybe more than that. A lot of rough people, but I tell you to me, they were beautiful people. But I never forgot that, “We’re not here to hear your speech, we’re here to protect you.” And I thought it was an incredible thing.
So you’ve been my friends, I want to thank you very much for it. Get those engines started. I want to see you guys drive around and drive as fast as you can, but don’t get hurt.
We appreciate you all tuning in. We are still looking live here at the front lawn of the White House for this Rolling To Remember ceremony, President Trump honoring veterans today. We’ll be back at 1:00 PM Eastern time for the White House press briefing with Kayleigh McEnany the Press Secretary, so don’t forget to tune in for that. And then tonight at 8:00 PM, Eastern, we’ll have Team Trump online. Tonight is Army For Trump Boot Camp with Erin Perrine, beginning at 8:00 PM, Eastern. Again, we carry Trump campaign programming every night, and we are hopeful that the rallies will resume soon. If you heard President Trump yesterday, we are anticipating rallies beginning, hopefully, next month in Battleground States. So we’ll have to see, but we are cautiously optimistic. So I appreciate everybody tuning in today. Enjoy your afternoon, and we’ll see you back at 1:00 PM, Eastern. Sorry folks, we have to wait until the copyright music is over. We are not allowed to play this.
Sue, Robert and Jan, and every one of you say hello to everybody. November 3rd is a big day, we don’t want to destroy this country. We’re going to make it bigger, better, greater than ever before. You’re going to see it happening very soon. We’re coming into the third quarter, that’s transitioned to greatness, third quarter transition. Get out there, work, November 3rd is the big day. Get all those cycles going there, but we appreciate you being here. Go have some fun, and we love you all. Thank you very much. And thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It’s very hot today. Please sit down. This is going to be a very hot one and we apologize to everybody out there that’s got to suffer through it. But you know what? It’s better than bad weather and it’s great to be in the rose garden. I want to especially thank this group for joining us as we announce a historic groundbreaking initiative in our ongoing effort to rapidly develop and manufacture a coronavirus vaccine. We’re joined by secretary Steven Mnuchin, Secretary Mark Esper, Secretary Alex Azar, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, FDA Director, Dr. Stephen Hahn, Director of the National Institute of Health, Dr. Francis Collins, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx. We’re joined by a very terrific group of professionals.
Tomorrow will mark 30 days since we released the White House guidelines for a safe and phased opening of America. That’s what we’re doing. It’s the opening of America. We’re going to have an amazing year next year. We’re going to have a great transition into the fourth quarter. As of this morning, almost every state has taken steps to begin reopening and the American people are doing an extraordinary job of continuing to take precautions while at the same time wanting to start, and they will be starting, to resume their American way of life. We will be reigniting our economic engines. We’re going to be taking care of our most vulnerable, which are our senior citizens and some others. We’re going to be working very, very hard on our senior citizens and our nursing homes and various communities to support those that are struggling in this very difficult time. Others don’t have the same kind of struggle.
For example, today, Secretary Perdue, together with Ivanka Trump, launched the Farmers and Families Food Box Program, which will provide $3 billion to help small farmers. And it will be helping farmers, ranchers, but it’ll be bringing food to some of the food lines and some of the food kitchens that you’ve been seeing on television. And I said, “Why aren’t we doing that? We have all of this tremendous food produced by our farmers and our ranchers.” And so we’re going to be buying $3 billion worth of that food, great for everybody. Our farmers, our ranchers, and the people that need great food.
A key feature of our reopening plan is the largest and most ambitious testing system in the world by far. America is now conducting close to 350,000 tests per day, an unthinkable number just a short while ago, more than anybody in the world by far, suggesting many states now have excess testing capacity to monitor for new outbreaks. Florida, many other states have so much testing the testers are waiting for people to show up. It’s great.
Another essential pillar of our strategy to keep America open is the development of effective treatments and vaccines as quickly as possible. Want to see if we can do that very quickly. We’re looking to, when I say quickly, we’re looking to get it by the end of the year if we can, maybe before. We’re doing tremendously well. From the earliest days of the pandemic, we have marshaled the genius of American scientists and researchers from all across government and the private sector, from academia, from everywhere to vanquish the virus, and tremendous strides have been made. Can tell you, I get to see it every day. Tremendous strides are being made. Scientists at the NIH began developing the first vaccine candidate on January 11th, think of that, within hours of the virus’s genetic code being posted online. So January 11th, most people never even heard what was going on January 11th. And we were out there trying to develop a vaccine, not even knowing what we were up against. Then my administration cut through every piece of red tape to achieve the fastest ever, by far, launch of a vaccine trial for this new virus, this very vicious virus. And I want to thank all of the doctors and scientists and researchers involved because they’ve never moved like this or never even close.
The NIH and the HHS have also been working constantly with private industry to evaluate more than 100 potential treatments. The Food and Drug Administration has swiftly approved more than 130 therapies for active trials. That’s what we have right now, 130. And another 450 are in the planning stages and tremendous potential awaits. I think we’re going to have some very interesting things to report in the not too distant future. And thank you very much to Dr. Hahn. Through a historic series of funding bills, my administration is providing roughly $10 billion to support a medical research effort without parallel. I especially want to thank Senator Steve Daines of Montana for his incredible work. He has worked so hard to secure additional funding for vaccine development. He has been right at the forefront.
Today, I want to update you on the next stage of this momentous medical initiative. It’s called Operation Warp Speed. That means big and it means fast, a massive scientific, industrial and logistical endeavor unlike anything our country has seen since the Manhattan Project. You really could say that nobody’s seen anything like we’re doing, whether it’s ventilators or testing. Nobody’s seen anything like we’re doing now within our country since the second World War, incredible. Its objective is to finish developing and then to manufacture and distribute a proven coronavirus vaccine as fast as possible. Again, we’d love to see if we could do it prior to the end of the year. We think we’re going to have some very good results coming out very quickly.
In addition, it will continue accelerating the development of diagnostics and breakthrough therapies. The great national project will bring together the best of American industry and innovation, the full resources of the United States government, and the excellence and precision of the United States military. We have the military totally involved. We’re also working very strongly with other countries who are also have some great, great scientists, doctors, and we’re all working very closely together and they’re viewing us as the leader and we are. The relationship with other countries on solving this problem has been incredible. Today, the Operation Warp Speed has brought together all of the experts across the federal government from places like the NIH, CDC, FDA, and many other agencies. This historic partnership will now bring together the full resources of the Department of Health and Human Services with the Department of Defense. And we know what that means. That means the full power and strength of military, the military, and that really talking about the logistics. We get it when we get it. That means the logistics, getting it out so that everybody can take it.
And today, we’re proud to announce the addition of two of the most highly respected skilled professionals in our country, worldwide respected. Operation Warp Speed’s chief scientists will be Dr. Moncef Slaoui, a world renowned immunologist who helped create 14 new vaccines, that’s a lot of our new vaccines, in 10 years during his time in the private sector. One of the most respected men in the world in the production and, really, on the formulation of vaccines. Joining Dr. Slaoui as Chief Operating Officer will be General Gus Perna, a four star general who currently oversees 190,000 service members, civilians, and contractors as Commander of the US Army Material Command. That means logistics. That means getting it out. We’ve got to get it out there. So General, thank you very much. And doctor, thank you very much. It’s great to have you on board. Really highly respected people. Thank you.
It’s great to have you on board. Really highly respected people. Thank you.
These two outstanding individuals will provide more details following my remarks. In preparation for this initiative, experts throughout the government have been collaborating to evaluate roughly 100 vaccine candidates from all over the world. They have identified 14 that they believe are the most promising and they’re working to narrow that list still further. So we started off with over 100, we’re down to 14, and we have some really interesting choices to be made. They’re doing very well.
Through Operation Warp Speed, the federal government is providing unprecedented support and resources to safely expedite the trials. Moving on at record, record, record speed. While we accelerate the final phases of vaccine trials, Operation Warp Speed will be simultaneously accelerating its manufacturing and manufacturing process. In other words, we’re getting ready so that when we get the good word that we have the vaccine, we have the formula, we have what we need, we’re ready to go. As opposed to taking years to gear up. We’re gearing up. It’s risky, it’s expensive, but we’ll be saving massive amounts of time. We’ll be saving years if we do this properly. And that’s what we’re doing. So we’re gearing up on the assumption that we’ll have in the near future, relatively near future, a vaccine.
Typically pharmaceutical companies wait to manufacture a vaccine until it has received all of the regulatory approvals necessary. And this can delay vaccines availability to the public as much as a year, and even more than that. However, our task is so urgent that under Operation Warp Speed, the federal government will invest in manufacturing all of the top vaccine candidates before they’re approved. So we’re knowing exactly what we’re doing before they’re approved. That means they better come up with a good vaccine, because we’re ready to deliver it. This will eliminate any unnecessary delay and enable us to begin providing Americans with a proven vaccine the day our scientists say, “We’re ready, we got it.”
And as we work to bring critical medical production back to America, these vaccines that we’re going to be focused on and manufacturing, they’re all going to be right here in the USA. Now we’re working, as I said, with other people outside, and that’s fine too. We want to get to the solution. We know exactly where the other countries are and we’ll be very happy if they were able to do it. We’ll help them with delivery, we’ll help them with it in every way we can. We have no ego when it comes to this. No ego whatsoever. Operation Warp Speed is also making the necessary preparations to distribute these life saving treatments at scale. So we’re talking about massive numbers so that millions of Americans will quickly have access to them. This includes ramping up production of supplies needed for distribution. And I have to say, we’re also very, very much involved in other things other than the vaccine. If you take a look at what we’re doing beyond vaccines, it’s going to be very interesting. We may talk about that in a little while. But this includes ramping up production of supplies needed for distribution, such as cold chain storage, glass vials, needles, syringes, and more. We’ll have everything right on hand, ready to go.
When a vaccine is ready, the US government will deploy every plane, truck and soldier required to help distribute it to the American people as quickly as possible. America’s blessed to have the most brilliant, talented doctors and researchers anywhere in the world. We have the mightiest military by far in the world. Our military is completely rebuilt. Much of the equipment has been delivered. Some of it’s on the way. All made right here in the USA. We took over very, very empty cupboards, I say, medically. We also had empty cupboards in a military sense. Our military was in sad shape. It was depleted. We now have the strongest military the United States has ever had by far, and the best equipment. And you hear that outside, that beautiful sound, those are truckers that are with us all the way. They’re protesting in favor of President Trump, as opposed to against. There’s hundreds of trucks out there. And that’s the sign of love, not the sign of your typical protest. So I want to thank our great truckers. They like me and I like them. We’re working on something together.
But we have the mightiest… And they’ll be helping us with this, by the way. Speaking of truckers. We have the mightiest military in the long history of humankind. We have the best and most devoted workers ever to walk the face of the earth. And now we’re combining all of these amazing strengths for the most aggressive vaccine project in history. There’s never been a vaccine project anywhere in history like this. And I just want to make something clear. It’s very important, vaccine or no vaccine, we’re back. And we’re starting the process. And in many cases they don’t have vaccines and a virus or a flu comes and you fight through it. We haven’t seen anything like this in 100 and some odd years, 1917, but you fight through it. And people sometimes, I guess, we don’t know exactly yet, but it looks like they become immune or at least for a short while and maybe for life. But you fight through it. But what we’d like to do, if we can, is the vaccine. And I think we’re going to be successful in doing it, and hopefully by the end of the year.
Just as generations of Americans before us faced down the most difficult trials, set their sights on the highest summit and overcame the biggest obstacles, america will meet the moment, and this moment specifically in our time, with unrivaled speed, unmatched scale, and the unyielding spirit of the American people. Our nation will come back stronger and greater than ever. We’re going to have a tremendous year next year. We’re going to have a really good fourth quarter. We’re going to have a very interesting and productive transition quarter, where Steve is there, And I’m sure our Secretary of the Treasury, I think you feel the same way, Steve. And thank you for your good work. Really good work. And it’s not finished yet, is it? I want to thank Steve Mnuchin, everybody.
Now I’d like to ask Dr. [Slowey and 00:15:54] and General Perna to come up and say a few words, followed by Secretary Azar and Secretary Esper. Thank you all very much. We’re doing something that has never been done before. It’s a going to result in a tremendous end. I think we’re going to come up with a solution to a problem like this country probably has never seen before. But it’s an honor to be your president. We’re doing a great job. These people are doing an incredible job. The people right here, I want to thank you all. Total professionals. Great men, great women. Thank you all very much. Please.
Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. It’s a great honor and a privilege for me to have the opportunity to serve our country and the world in this remarkable endeavor. Extraordinary endeavor. Helping them and supported them do it. The Operation Warp Speed objectives are very clear. The president has described them, and I believe they are very credible. I also believe they are extremely challenging. However, I am really confident that our team across the many governmental agencies that are involved in these efforts, NIH, the CDC, the FDA, Esper, and of course with the support of the army and our partners in the private sector, we’ll be able and we’ll do the utmost to deliver these objectives. In fact, Mr. President, I have very recently seen early data from a clinical trial with a coronavirus vaccine, and this data made me feel even more confident that we will be able to deliver a few hundred million doses of vaccine by the end of 2020. And we will do the best we can, the best we can to do that. Thank you.
We will of course also focus on progressing and-
… Of course also focus on progressing and accelerating development of medicines for those who unfortunately already caught the virus, as well as optimize the diagnostic tests. This will be our focus 24/7 over the next many months. Thank you.
Thank you.
Good afternoon. Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you for this great honor for allowing me to be a part of this team. I’m very excited about this team. It will be historic as we execute the mission that’s been given to us. I also feel very confident that the team will be able to provide the results as directed. It is going to be a Herculean task. But the combination of the two main partners between Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense, their combined strengths partnered with the other teammates will ensure our success.
One of the great advantages that we have as a military is our ability to do logistical and sustainment operations afar. We’re just going to apply those capabilities to this mission. This mission is about defeating the enemy. We will defeat the enemy. Why? Because winning matters. And I’m excited to be a part of this team. And Mr. President, thank you.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership of this historic effort. Your vision for Operation Warp Speed, setting a goal of a vaccine by January 2021 will be one of the great scientific and humanitarian accomplishments in human history. Today you’re announcing the team that can get it done. Dr. Slaoui is arguably the world’s most experienced and successful vaccine developer, responsible for some of the major recent breakthroughs in vaccines. General Perna oversees one of the world’s largest logistics and supply chain operations, the one that keeps the Army running. Three highly accomplished career HHS scientists will oversee each area of Operation Warp Speed. Dr. Peter Marks of FDA for vaccines, Dr. Janet Woodcock of FDA for therapeutics, and Dr. Bruce Stromberg of NIH for diagnostics. This is truly a dream team.
We started work on each of these areas in January, and Congress has provided nearly $ 10 billion explicitly for this kind of research and development effort. Operation Warp Speed will integrate existing efforts that are coordinating vaccine, therapeutic and countermeasure development, including NIH’s ACTIV and RADx initiatives. This week, HHS and DOD already announced new contracts to manufacture hundreds of millions of needles and syringes here in America for distributing an eventual vaccine.
Finally, the president’s efforts will ensure not only that we get vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics faster, but that we get large donations of the eventual product so they’re affordable for the American people. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you to all of the American scientists and inventors at HHS, at DOD and elsewhere who are hard at work already. And I really want to express my personal appreciation to Secretary Esper and the Department of Defense because this partnership is what’s going to make this truly an historic endeavor. Thank you.
Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership of this bold and historic initiative. The Department of Defense is very excited and committed to working closely with our partners at HHS, across the government and in the private sector, to accomplish the mission we have been given. Winning matters, and we will deliver by the end of this year a vaccine at scale to treat the American people and our partners abroad.
The Department of Defense has been in this fight since day one, going back to January. We stayed ahead of the curve every step of the way. And today, on America’s streets, across the nation, over 60,000 service members from all branches of the service are still out there. Whether it’s doctors and nurses in hospitals, whether it’s the National Guard on the streets of America or the Corps of Engineers who continue to build out capacity in America’s hospitals, we are there and we will be there, Mr. President. And we look forward to this next greatest phase of this fight against the Coronavirus.
We are all in then, we are all in now and we will be all in in the future. And we will deliver on time, to bear the full weight of the Department of Defense, all of our first class, world-class researchers and scientists, our ability to manage logistics at scale and our great distributional capabilities. We will deliver. We will win this fight. And Mr. President, thank you again for all that you’ve done. We will get the job done.
I know you will. I know you will. Any questions please? Yeah, go ahead.
Mr. President, when you said, “Vaccine or no vaccine, we’re back.” What did you mean by that?
We think we’re going to have a vaccine in the pretty near future. And if we do, we’re going to really be a big step ahead. And if we don’t, we’re going to be like so many other cases where you had a problem come in, it’ll go away. At some point, it’ll go away. It may flare up and it may not flare up, we’ll have to see what happens. But if it does flare up, we’re going to put out the fire and we’ll put it out quickly and efficiently. We’ve learned a lot. Steve, do you have a question?
We’ve heard that the vaccine typically would take 12 to 18 months to develop. How can you do it in a speedier fashion? What makes you think this will work?
Well, they started… Actually, I guess you heard in early January and they’ve been on it… I know so many, and private companies have been working on it. The government’s been working on it. We’ve got the time because we put a very… And they’ve literally been working 24 hours a day. We’ve got the time, and we hope to be able to do something by the end of the year or shortly thereafter.
But again, it’s not solely vaccine based. Other things have never had a vaccine and they go away. I don’t want people to think that this is all dependent on a vaccine, but a vaccine would be a tremendous thing. And I will tell you, therapeutically or therapeutics, what’s going on there is equally as oppressive. We have some things happening. We have the remdesivir from Gilead. We have other things that are very good. I think that a lot is happening therapeutically. I can’t say that it’s relatively-speaking equal to what’s going on with vaccines, but I think it’s doing very well, very well. Therapeutics are a big factor. Yeah, please.
Is there a global competition to develop this vaccine? Like if France develops it first will they share it with us?
Yeah. We have that very well worked out. Whoever gets it is going to be very proud to give it, and they’ve developed it. And we’ll see what happens. We’ve got countries that are allies. We have some countries, frankly, that aren’t allies, we’re working very closely together. We’re working together with many different countries. And again, we have no ego. We have no ego. Whoever gets it, we think it’s great. We’re going to work with them. They’re going to work with us. Likewise, if we get it, we’re going to be working with them. It’s very important. It’s very good question actually. Yeah, please.
Mr. President, what do you say to those business owners and other people who are really questioning the guidance that the CDC put out last night? There was a concern that it would be overly prescriptive. Now, there’s a concern it’s not prescriptive enough. What are business owners to do?
Well, I thought the guidance was very good. I’ve heard very good reviews on the guidance. The media will never be satisfied. If we gave you more description, that would be no good. If we gave you less, that would be no good. But I thought it was very good and I’ve heard a lot of good things. Go ahead, please, Green.
Do you have any concerns about the Abbott test given some of the new numbers that have come out about-
No, Abbott’s a great test. It’s a very quick test and it can always be very rapidly double-checked. If you’re testing positive or negative, it can always be double-checked, but it’s a very good test. It’s very portable, very quick. Okay.
What happens if China is the country that develops the vaccine? What happens if it’s China? Will the US still have access to that vaccine?
I would say the answer to that would be yes. I would say the answer would be yes. Yes, go ahead please.
[inaudible 00:26:43] do you mean fully-approved vaccine for everyone?
Excuse me, you’re going to have to remove it. You can’t hear through your…
Do you mean a full-approved vaccine for the entire general public or a partially-approved vaccine for emergency use?
Come over here a little bit.
Oh, sorry. Let me step near the mic. Sorry, let me repeat-
Sorry, let me repeat that, now I’m closer to the mic. Do you mean a fully approved vaccine for everyone, the full public, or a partially approved vaccine with emergency use?
No, we’re looking for a full vaccine for everyone that wants to get it. Not everybody’s going to want to get it, but we’re looking at a full vaccine. Is that a correct statement?
Yeah, we’ll-
Please.
So the answer is yes, we’re working for a fully approved vaccine, but we’ll also use the tools we have, for instance, emergency use authorization, as appropriate. We use all of our regulatory tools to bring vaccine available for the entire American population by January.
Okay. And then Mr. President, can you just clarify, why are some of you wearing a mask and why are some of you not wearing a mask?
We’ve all been tested. I’ve been tested. We’ve all been tested and we’re quite a distance away and we’re outdoor. So I told them, I gave them the option. They could wear it or not. So you can blame it on me, but I gave them the option. We could wear it or not. Yeah, please.
Would a US vaccine be available for the rest of the world at an affordable rate? Like a low cost?
The last thing anybody’s looking for is profit in terms of what we’re doing. Every company, they want to get it out. We’ve had a great experience on [inaudible 00:01:19]. We’ve had a great experience on everything we’ve done. People are looking to come up with the answer. They’re not looking in … Typically they’re saying, “How much am I going to make? How much?” They really have been, there’s been a great spirit on this. They want to get to the bottom of it. And I think we’ll be able to do that.
Mr. President, Indian American communities are appreciating your help in finding the vaccine for coronavirus. What is a message for the 4 million Indian Americans here?
So, India has been so great. And as you know, your prime minister has been a very good friend of mine. I just got back a short while ago from India recently, and we’re working very much with India too. We have a tremendous Indian population in the United States. Many of the people that you’re talking about are working on the vaccine too, great scientists and researchers. Yeah. We’re working very closely also with India. Correct. And say hello to your prime minister. Yeah, please. Go ahead.
Thank you, Mr. President. What steps, if any, is your administration taking to ensure that the communities and the states that are hardest hit will have first access to the vaccine? Have these discussions been had, or are there any place-
Yeah, I think we’ve done a good job with that. Certain areas have been hit very hard, New York, New Jersey, et cetera, et cetera, working very closely with the governors. We’ve worked with all of the governors. We’ve made a lot of people look very good with what we’ve done on ventilators, with what we’ve done on testing. We’re working with all of the governors. We just sent a big transit package to New Jersey. I just spoke to the governor of New Jersey, who is a terrific person, by the way, I have to tell you. And I just told him, “A lot of money’s coming way for the transit.” And also I spoke with the governor of New York, Governor Cuomo. We just had a conversation yesterday. We’re sending them a lot of transportation money. So it’s important. But we’ve had a very good relationship working with all of the states, regardless. All of the states. And if we do get fortunate enough, and I think we’re skilled enough, but fortunate enough to have a vaccine, it’ll get out fairly and quickly.
Do you foresee that states that are hardest hit will have first dibs? So will like New York and New Jersey have-
I think that makes sense, perhaps. Perhaps it does, but I would say probably, but I think they’re all going to get well distributed. If you remember where we started, we had no ventilators. We had to make them and we became a very major manufacturer of ventilators. Now we’re helping countries all over the world with ventilators. We’re sending them to many countries all over the world. When we started, we didn’t have ventilators. I inherited nothing. I inherited practically nothing from the previous administration, unfortunately. Yeah, go ahead.
Mr. President, it’s been three months since you signed the China trade deal. Between what’s happened with coronavirus and the lagging agricultural purchases, are you at any point considering reimposing additional tariffs on China or tearing up the deal in any other way?
Well, I don’t want to talk about it. I can say China is buying a lot of our product, but the trade deal, the ink was barely dry when this came in from China. So it’s not like we’re thrilled. Okay, go ahead. Please.
Mr. President, can I ask one more?
Yeah.
I’m wondering if you’re standing by the nomination of Michael Pack to lead Voice of America after news that the DC Attorney General-
Well, I don’t know what happened. I know that Voice of America is run in a terrible manner, terrible. They’re not the voice of America, they’re the opposite of the voice of America. And we have a man who is very good. I don’t know. He’s in the nominating process, but I’ll have to check that out. Yeah, please.
Thank you, Mr. President. If public confidence is the main thing of getting people back to work and back to schools and so on, is this even possible without a vaccine? How would it be possible without a vaccine, public confidence?
Well, I think a very big factor frankly is that very few people are … We read about all of the very sad, very tragic. I’ve lost friends. Many of us have lost friends. We read about that and we see that, and that’s what the news covers, but it’s a very small percentage. It’s a very, very small percentage. I say it all the time. It’s a tiny percentage. The vast majority, many people don’t even know they have it. They have it or they have sniffles or they have a very minor sign and they recover. Not only recover, they probably have immunity, whether it’s short term, long term, but they have probably immunity. And I think people have to understand that. That’s why I think the schools should be back in the fall. I think that lots of things should happen. I don’t think that you should have 70 year old teachers back yet. They should wait until everything is gone. I don’t think you should have a professor that’s 65 and has diabetes, or has a bad heart back necessarily, or somebody that’s older than that. But we want to see our schools back.
We want to see our country start to work again. We created the greatest economy in the history of the world and we’re going to do it again. And you’re going to see that next year. And it’s going to start, you’ll start to see it in the fourth quarter, maybe even before that. Yeah.
Mr. President, are you at all concerned about children or teachers who are in the school bringing it home to their families or their spouses?
I’m concerned about everything. And I’m also concerned about our country. Our country has to get back. What you’re talking is when you are doing what we did with the shutdown, that causes death also. It causes massive depression. It causes drugs, it causes suicide. It causes a lot of problems also. No, our country has to get back to work again. And you see that just looking and reading everything that’s happening are people want to get back. They want to get back. Yeah.
Sir, do you have a plan to prevent the spread? If you-
We do. We do. We have a great plan to prevent the spread, but that doesn’t mean we’re going to close our country for five years. Okay. Not going to happen.
[inaudible 00:34:17] in the schools is your plan?
Go ahead.
The current death toll is about 86,000.
At current, it’s about 86,000. Yes.
Do you think that’s accurate or do you think it’s higher than that?
Or lower than that, I don’t know. I don’t know. Those are the numbers that are being reported. I assume they’re correct. Unlike other countries, I mean, you have some countries, obviously, you have some that are very obviously ridiculous, but our numbers are accurate numbers. We don’t do anything with the numbers one way or the other. Whatever it is, that’s what we do. We take the numbers as reported. Okay?
Do you have any indication that they could be lower than that?
Oh, I don’t know. I don’t know. If they were, I’d be very happy if they were lower. I’d like to see numbers lower. I’d like to see no death at all. One death is too many. This should have never happened. This came from China. It should have been stopped in China before it got out to the world. We have 186, it’s been updated this morning, 186 countries are affected, and each country that’s affected is the same thing. Russia now is badly affected. France is badly affected. You look at what each country, and you can say affected, or you can say infected, either way you want to put it, but you look at these countries. Look at Italy and you look at Spain and you look at all of these great countries in many cases, how they’ve had to fight through this. It’s a terrible thing that happened. It could have been stopped at the source. It should have been stopped right at the source, but it wasn’t. Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.
… Continue this great tradition. It’s such a timeless [inaudible 00:00:05], though it is not the first time our president has called on the nation during our present national crisis to pray. It was in March of this year, the president asked the American people to join, in his words, in a day of prayer for all people, all those affected by the coronavirus pandemic, and to pray for God’s healing hand to be placed on the people of our nation. And I can tell you that your first family and our family have been inspired every day to see the way that the American people have taken up that call, not just to pray, but to act in the midst of this national crisis.
We’ve seen people of every creed in this country, in every city and every state step forward to put feed on their faith with countless acts of kindness and generosity to those in need. The Bible says, “Because of the Lord’s great love, we are not consumed, for his compassions never fail.” And neither have the compassions or the generosity of the American people failed in this hour. So, on this national day of prayer, we count it a privilege to simply say to the American people, thank you for your prayers and thank you for all you have done to see your family, your friends, your neighbors, and even strangers through these unprecedented times. But today, with the deepest respect and a grateful heart, we urge you to be persistent in prayer. On this national day of prayer, pray for the families who’ve lost loved ones and pray for those who at this very hour are struggling with the severest consequences of the coronavirus.
Pray for our doctors and nurses and healthcare workers who have cared for our families as if they were their own, and have not just provided the health care that any one of us would want for a loved one, but in so many cases our doctors and nurses and healthcare workers and… Literally taken the place of family and loved ones for patients enduring the isolation of the coronavirus. Pray for the police, firefighters, and first responders, who without regard to their personal safety have rendered care and sped those impacted by this dread virus to healing hands. And as we gather today and remember these families and these heroes and all of those who have labored every day to protect our nation during these challenging times, let’s also remember to pray for all of the men and women who defend this nation in good times and bad. Who wear the uniform of the United States, who are standing opposed at this hour in far flung places around the world, who are deploying as we speak to defend this great nation. Let’s remember them as well.
And on this national day of prayer, as we pray for the American people, for every American of every creed, let’s do so with faith in those ancient words that Americans have clung to throughout our history. That if his people who are called by his name will humble themselves and pray, let’s know that he’ll do like he’s always done throughout every challenging hour in the history of this nation. He’ll hear from heaven and he’ll heal this land. So, thank you, God bless you and God bless America.
In my own life, in times of despair and anxiety, I’ve cherished Psalm 46:10, which says, “Be still and know that he is God.” And I’ve also gotten a lot of comfort from Psalm 62:8, “Trust in him at all times. Pour out your heart to him, for God is our refuge.”
Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States and Mrs. Trump.
On this national day of prayer, let’s us take a moment to extend our deepest sympathy to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to COVID-19. Let us pray for the ill, the ones who are suffering and those serving on the front lines. When evil darkens our world, give us light. When despair numbs our souls, give us hope. When we stumble and fall, lift us up. When doubts assail us, give us faith. When nothing seems sure, give us trust. When ideals fade, give us vision. When we lose our way, be our guide that we may find serenity in your presence and purpose in doing your will. Amen.
Thank you very much. Please sit. Thank you, be seated please. And Melania, thank you very much. On the second anniversary of the Be Best initiative, you’ve done a fantastic job and everybody appreciates it, but I want to… Thank you, and I want to thank you on behalf of the entire nation for all that you do for America’s children and on fighting the drug addiction problem that we have in this country. It’s all over the world, but I want to thank you very much. Great job. You do your work so hard. On this national day of prayer, America is engaged in a fierce battle against a very terrible disease. Throughout our history, in times of challenge, our people have always called upon the gift of faith, the blessing of belief, the power of prayer and the eternal glory of God. I ask all Americans to join their voices and their hearts in spiritual union as we ask our Lord in heaven for strength and solace, for courage and comfort, for hope and healing, for recovery and for renewal.
In recent days and weeks, our country has endured a grave hardship. We pray for every family stricken with grief and devastated with a tragic loss. We pray for the doctors, the nurses and first responders waging war against the invisible enemy. We pray for the scientists’ and researchers’ pioneer treatments, that they find therapies and vaccines and that they find them soon. We pray for the frontline workers keeping our nation fed, nourished and safe and secure. May God watch over them all. We’re honored to have with us today our amazing vice president Mike Pence and his wonderful wife, Karen. Great friends of our nation and great friends of mine and Melania’s, and somebody who’s done an incredible job not only as vice president but as heading the task force which has come up with so many solutions and ideas and things that we didn’t even think about two months ago.
We’re also profoundly grateful to be joined by many faith leaders who are helping to care for our neighbors in their hour of need. Thank you all for providing meals to families, medical supplies to hospitals, and for providing spiritual strength and encouragement to your communities. Very important people, very respected people, and very much loved people. In every part of our country, we’ve seen grace of God through the love and devotion of our fellow citizens as scripture assures us the Lord your God is not your midst, a mighty one who will save. And I think it’s so true. Think of that, the Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. We have been reminded once again-
… who will save. We have been reminded once again that God has blessed our land with heroes of faith. Here with us is Brittany Akinsola from Charlotte, North Carolina. Brittany is a nurse, a pastor, a wife, a mother. When she saw the dire situation in New York City, she volunteered to work at Samaritan’s Purse Field Hospital in Central Park. There she worked 13-hour shifts in the intensive care unit for weeks praying for each patient while giving them the very best care. As Brittany said, “We just keep sharing the love of Christ through our gifts of nursing.”
Brittany, America’s forever indebted to you and the incredible job you have done. We very much appreciate it, Brittany. Please come up. Please come up, Brittany, and say a few words. Thank you.
Thank you so much, Mr. President. It has been a great honor and privilege to be able to travel around the world with Samaritan’s Purse and help people in their time of crisis and need. I most recently had the opportunity to go to New York City as you shared. I will tell you that just to be able to combine both my skills of nursing and the gifting of pastoring at such a time as this in our nation and to serve the people of New York City was truly one of the greatest honors of my life.
I know that I am one of many frontline workers that are serving our country right now. To all of my colleagues at Samaritan’s Purse and to everyone that is doing such an incredible job sharing their gifts to help those in need, I just want to say thank you so much. Thank you for being just a light of hope in a time that is such a hopeless time for so many people.
I would love to just leave you with a scripture that has helped me so much through this time. It’s Galatians 6:9. What it says is, “Let us not become weary of doing good for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up.” The harvest that I’m believing for our country is one of restoration and hope. I am believing for healing in the name of Jesus. I am believing that unity will thrive during this time. Thank you so much. God bless you all.
Brittany, that’s great. Wow. Thank you very much. Brittany, no notes, no nothing. You know your stuff, don’t you? Thank you very much. A fantastic person. Also with us is Mario Salerno, a landlord, auto shop owner in Brooklyn. Last month, Mario waived rent for all 200 of his tenants. I got to see you on television actually. I said, “What kind of a landlord is that?” That’s a great landlord, right? That’s very nice. I got to see that. He wanted to make sure that they could put food on the table and he wanted to take care of their families. Even though he’s losing a lot of income, which he could always use. We can always use it. Right, Mario? But that was a big thing. Mario says, “That’s irrelevant compared to the value of human life.” Fantastic thing, Mario.
He also believes he has two callings in this wonderful world, usually wonderful world. We live in a world that’s very complex. To do good to people and to keep his faith. As Mario puts it, “Faith is a lot more powerful than fear.” That’s true. Mario, if you would, would you please step up and say a few words? Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. I’m honored on this special Day of Prayer. I have nothing written. I just want to thank the good Lord. Every morning when I wake up, 3:30 in the morning, get ready, put my feet, I pray. I ask the good Lord, “Please, conquer this vicious virus. It’s making us all stumble.” Besides me praying to the good Lord, I pray for our dear President. I tell God, “Please give him the strength and the power, because he’s not only our leader of the great United States, the whole world is following this gentleman.” I can’t say anything else, but let’s please pray for this wonderful man. Faith before fear. Mr. President, I’m honored to be here. I pray for you every day. God bless America. God bless you, Mr. President. Thank you.
Wow, that’s so great. Thank you, Mario. That’s really nice. I appreciate it. By the way, I love your tie, but I love your words even more. Thank you very much.
In every age and in every generation, the prayers of our people and the faith of our families has willed us on to victory. No obstacle, no enemy and no danger can overcome the mighty spirit and soul of our nation. In every battle against poverty, against disease, against tyranny and evil, we have placed our loyalty in each other and our trust in God and we have prevailed. We will continue to prevail. We will prevail again. We will vanquish the virus. We will defeat the enemy. We will not fail. Once more, we call upon our creator to guide us through these very complex steps, protect our people, rebuild our communities and restore a beloved nation to even greater heights. We will never forget, however, those that have been lost. Those incredible souls and the families of those souls that are going through so much, we will never forget you. We will be there for you. May God continue to strengthen our hearts and sustain ourselves. May God continue to shed his divine grace upon this land. May God forever bless the United States of America.
Now, I’d like to ask the faith leaders of our country, some of the most important of our faith leaders, people respected by everybody, to say a few words. Please, Sister Anita Martinez, if you would perhaps begin? Sister, thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President.
In the name of the father and of the son and of the Holy spirit, amen. Dear heavenly father, I ask you to grant us in this moment to be in your most holy presence in the presence of our mother Mary, Saint Joseph, our protector and guide, for all the angels and of all the saints. I ask you to please grant us the grace to be one in body and in spirit, all of your children of the earth.
Please be with us so that with one voice, with the voice of the church, we may pray together to our Lord and savior, Jesus Christ. Jesus, son of God, you were sent by the father to bear our weakness. Be with us in this time of crisis. Merciful savior, heal and comfort the sick so that with health restored they may give you praise. Divine physician, accompany our caregivers so that serving you with patience, they may heal wisely.
Eternal wisdom, guide our leaders so that seeking remedies they may follow your light. Christ the anointed, protect us in body and spirit so that freed from harm we may be delivered from all affliction. Beloved son of the father, grant us the grace to grow in love for him that we may love the Lord our God with all of our heart, with all of our mind and with all of our strength. You who live and reign in the unity of God, the father with the holy spirit, one God forever and ever. Amen.
We thank you, father for this moment. We thank you for your love for us. We ask you in the name of Christ our Lord to bless us with his most precious blood, to bless our nation, to bless our world in the name of the father and of the son and of the Holy spirit. Amen.
Thank you, Sister very much. Thank you. That’s beautiful. Pujari Harish Brahmbhatt.
Thank you, Mr. President. In these troubled times of COVID-19, social distancing and the lockdown, it’s not unusual for people to feel anxious or not at peace. The Shanti path of the peace prayer is a prayer that does not seek worldly riches, success, fame, nor is it a prayer for any desire for heaven. It is a beautiful Hindu prayer for peace, Shanti. It’s a Vedic prayer derived from the Ayurved. The prayer goes [foreign language 00:09: 54].
The prayer translates into onto the heavens be peace. Onto the sky and earth be peace. Peace be onto the water. Onto the herbs and trees be peace. Onto all the crops be peace. Onto Brahma and unto all be peace. May we realize that peace. Om, peace, peace, peace. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Would Bishop Dwight Green please come up? Thank you very much.
Good afternoon to the President, Vice President and all those that are assembled today at the National Day of Prayer. Let us pray. To the eternal sovereign God of creation, you have summoned your people once again to prayer. As the presiding Bishop of the Church of God and Christ and the membership of our organization around the world, has for the last 12 weeks been joined together interceding for the deliverance of our nation and our world.
That God would deliver us from the coronavirus pandemic and all other debilitating plagues present in our world. We believe that the suffering and the loss of life, which continues to threaten the social …
Life, which continues to threaten the social, economic and geopolitical balance of our country can be curtail when the people of God pray. You said in Psalms 107, “He will sin his word to heal and deliver us from destruction.” Our systems are broken, no longer trusted nor effective because we have strayed from your commandments, and our people are wounded, ailing, bewildered, frustrated by empty promises. We need you to transform us to the likeness of your son, Jesus the Christ. We need your word of healing that will restore confidence in our justice system, that will reflect fairness and provide rehabilitation for redeemable offenders. We need your word to heal, that promise quality early childhood education and equitable distribution of opportunities for wealth building for blacks, browns, and disadvantaged whites. We need your word of healing that will speak to the physical, emotional, and spiritual deficiencies of our nation, your word that will cause us to recognize we are all God’s children and he has called us to love and good works.
You declared a house divided against itself will self-destruct. So Father, have mercy on us as we repent today, for our miscarriage of justice. I repent of all offenses and disobedience of our nation to your commandments, and humbly seek your forgiveness and pray for mercy that you will deliver us from this evil affliction of the coronavirus. And grant to our President, Mr. Trump, the Vice President, Congress and the religious leaders of our nation, your divine insight to navigate this pandemic in the name of Jesus Christ the savior, and we prayed divine comfort for the grieving families of those that have been lost and those that are yet struggling with the affliction inflicted by this virus. We pray your comfort, your deliverance, and your peace. In Jesus name, thank God. Amen.
Thank you, Bishop, very much. Thank you. Pastor Paula White, please come up. Thank you, Paula.
What an honor to be here with you, President and First Lady, Vice President, Second Lady. It’s a beautiful day to lift up our Lord and savior. He is a certain God in uncertain times and the Bible says if two or three of us agree as touching anything, it will be done. Job 22:28 says, “If you decree a thing and declare a thing, it will be established.” So God, we come in agreement with your word and with your name, the name of Jesus. Psalm 40:17 says, “You are my help and my deliver. Do not delay, oh God.” I declare no more delays to the deliverance of COVID-19, no more delays to healing and a vaccination, no more delays to restoration of this great nation, the United States of America. For Psalm 71:2 says, “In your righteousness, deliver us and rescue us. Incline your ear and save us.”
Psalm 107 says, “You deliver us out of distress and out of destruction.” Your word will not return void according to Isaiah 55:11, so I declare your word. I declare divine intervention and supernatural turnaround. You will restore this land according to Psalm 118:25, save our nation, oh Lord, and sin prosperity now. For Deuteronomy 28:8 says, “Command your blessing upon this land.” You said in Deuteronomy 8:9 to bring us into good land without any lack. For your word declares in Psalm 33:2, “Blessed is the nation whose God is Lord.” So I declare to you right now to be Lord over this nation, over the United States of America, and re-receive your blessing over any plague, over any economic distress. You will stay the hand of the enemy according to second Samuel 21:16.
When 70,000 men died by a plague, David cried out as he covered himself in prayer and the Lord answered and said, “It is enough. Stay now thine hand.” Lord, let that be the cry today and let that be your answer. Lord, enough coronavirus, enough to death, enough to fear, enough to poverty. Stay thine your hand. We pray over President Trump, and First Lady, Vice President, and Second Lady, and this administration. I declare Psalm 89: 21, let your hand establish President Trump and let your arms strengthen him. I declare Psalm 98:1 that your right hand and your holy arm will give him victory. We declare victory in the name of Jesus. Isaiah 58:11 says, “Guide him continually.” And you said in Psalm 78:72 that you would guide him by the stillfulness of your hand. You declared in Psalm 43 that send out your light and truth and let him lead his household, his administration, in the name of Jesus.
Now, Lord, we pray for your mercies, for they are new every single day. And every morning your mercies are new. Your steadfast love never ceases. I declare new mercies for hospital workers, new mercies for doctors and nurses, moms and dads, pastors and clergies, CEOs and employers, for the President, Vice President. God, your love is steadfast and it endures forever. So right now, wrap your arms of love around every person who is hurting, every person who is confused, scared, tired, weary, sick, lonely. Let them know your love. Let them know that you will never leave them and you will never forsake them.
And in conclusion, I declare Isaiah 43:19, I ask the Lord to do a new thing in our nation by giving waters in the wilderness and streams in the desert. Malachi 4:2 says, “Jesus, arise over the nation with healing in your wings.” President, one last word. Like David, who had had victory, after victory, after victory, after victory, would face his biggest battle. It was called ziklag. And they would take his wives and his children, and the city would be burned down. And he cried and he wept. And he began to pray out to God and God gave him a word. And through fasting and praying, I believe this is the word for you and for this nation. The Lord spoke to him and said, “Pursue and go after them and you shall without fail recover all.” Sir, the word of the Lord, I believe for this nation and for this administration is you will recover all.
Thank you, very much, Paula. Incredible, Paula. Thank you. Next is Chaplain Abraham Rahim. Thank you, Chaplain.
Let us pray. Gracious and merciful Lord, I pray for our nation. I bring the needs of our citizens before you and ask that you be with all of us through the challenges we endure from COVID-19. I pray for the victims and families of victims that have lost their lives as well as those that are fighting for their lives today. I pray for the many without jobs, food and shelter. I ask that you would give all of our nation’s leaders the wisdom and courage to lead us through this pandemic.
I pray for our President, Vice President, First Lady and Second Lady. I ask that you help us to work together as a nation. I ask that you bless our Congress and all of those in leadership positions to restore our nation back to full operation. I pray for your protection to cover all of our valued healthcare workers, our courageous first responders, law enforcement, community, and brave men and women of our military. I pray for all essential workers. I pray for the soundness of mind for our governors and judges across the land. I pray for every faith community and their leaders, and I asked your blessings upon those in my community who are observing the collective fast of Ramadan.
I ask these blessings and your gracious and merciful name. Amen.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Sister Debbie Harrison. Sister Harrison, thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President. Our dear heavenly Father, we are grateful this day to be gathered together with representatives from many faiths, united in prayer to appeal to thee thy mercy and grace in helping us and our nation. We are grateful to be in a country where we have the right to exercise our religious beliefs, and we pray and cherish that those freedoms that we have will be protected and not be diminished.
We are united in prayer today to ask a special blessing of deliverance, deliverance from this pandemic that has covered the earth in a devastating sickness. We ask that our doctors, nurses, and caregivers can be blessed with special protection and recognition of their sacrifices and hard work. Please bless our scientists and doctors to develop effective treatments for those who are sick and who may become sick. We pray that a safe and effective vaccine can be developed quickly to protect us so that life can return to normal.
Bless the leaders of this great nation to be inspired by thee, to have wisdom and judgment, to make good decisions, and to get the economy running again. Amplify their talents. Bless our leaders to work together in harmony and unity, to do what is best for the citizens of this nation.
We pray for those that mourn for lost loved ones and ask you to send thy Holy Spirit to comfort them and give them assurance that they can be reunited again through the power of our savior Jesus Christ’s resurrection. We know that without thy strengthening help, we will fail, but with thy help and tender mercies, we can do all things and we will not fail. We pray we can look to thee in every thought, doubt not, and fear not.
We love thee, heavenly Father, and we call down the powers of heaven to help us, unite us, and deliver us from these troubled times. I say these things in deep gratitude for all of our blessings in the sacred name of Jesus Christ.
… for all of our blessing in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, our healer and redeemer. Amen.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Rabbi Ariel Sadwin. Thank you Rabbi.
Thank you Mr. President. King Solomon in his great wisdom writes in the second chapter of Song of Songs, ” There he stands behind our wall, gazing through the windows, peering through the lattice. The Midrash commentary explains this to be referring to almighty God. At a time when his presence is not visible, nor it is readily apparent, but fear not says King Solomon, he is right there. In the background. Watching you through the window and the lattice. [Foreign language 00:36:57] Oh our merciful Father.” This idea is so apparent and reminiscent to this most challenging time during which we find ourselves. Our relationship with you seems so different from what it always has been. We have not been in your house, our holy Synagogues in nearly two months. These sacred places where we go to seek you and to derive inspiration three time a day, every day, are empty, dark, and shuttered. Instead, all we have had is the sanctuary of our own homes and the limited allowable interactions. There is fear, there is sickness, there is death, whenever we turn and whenever we listen. But yet we know you are still there, watching over us as always.
[Foreign language 00:37:48] master of the world, you are the [Foreign language 00:37:52], the healer of all flesh. We implore you to eradicate this awful plague from your earth. Heal those who suffer. Comfort those who mourn. Sustain those who have lost livelihood. Please bless our President, our first lady, our Vice President, our second lady, and the entire administration as well as the leaders of state and local governments who must make critical decisions each and every day.
Please bless the doctors, nurses, first responders, and all medical personnel who dedicated their lives to save others. Please bless the selfless community and civic leaders who are doing their part to help those in need and please bless each and every one of your 330 million children who make up the United States of America. Amen.
Thank you Rabbi, very much. Now I’d like to ask the Spirit of Faith Christian Center choir to come up and conclude the event by leading us in the singing of God Bless America. Thank you.
It is my prayer and desire as we join together to sing God Bless America that we would all reciprocate and begin to bless God.
(Singing).
Well thank you very much. That was great, thank you. You know while you’re up here… so this is totally unexpected, but you’re so good, do you have one song that you’d like to sing for the group and for the whole world that’s watching right now. You have a lot of cameras out there. Go ahead. We’ll put a little pressure on you. You can handle it. Go ahead.
(Singing). Sing it together you are. Say it.
That’s fantastic. A lot of people were watching, thank you. Great talent, beautiful. Thank you all very much. Great day of prayer, thank you very much.
(crosstalk)-
When everything lifts, we’ll get a hug. Please do. Please do. We got something for you.
Sisters thank you, it’s was beautiful. We’re honored to have you, we really are. [crosstalk 00:46:31]. My Catholic mother gave me a rosary for [crosstalk 00:46:28] first of the year. [crosstalk 00:46:33]. Came out and gave me a rosary. I haven’t seen her since. It’s still sitting on my desk. [crosstalk 00:46:49]-
Oh you were amazing. Hi. I know.
… and the upcoming Arbor Day and that’s going to be… Tell me David. That’s right. Friday. Thank you. As more than 180 nations around the world battle the vicious coronavirus, we continue to mourn the precious souls who have been lost, so sadly lost, and so unnecessarily lost. It should have been stopped and it should’ve been stopped right where it started, and everyone knows where it started.
But in this time of trial, the beauty of springtime fills us with the peace and the hope of renewal. We’re pleased to be joined by our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Please Mike, stand up. You have done such a great job on getting us open again. We’re opening again, Mike. It’s starting to move. A lot of states are in great shape and they’re starting to move it along. And very importantly, Karen Pence has been so fantastic and done such a great job representing the country. Thank you, Karen. Beautiful job.
Also here are Secretaries David Bernhardt, Sonny Perdue, Administrator Wheeler, Andrew Wheeler. Thank you. And Leader, Kevin McCarthy, and what a job he’s done and good vote the other day, yesterday. That was good. But previous to that. And when are you voting on the-
Thursday.
Thursday? Good. Is that a guarantee or… There’s no guarantee.
We’re going [inaudible 00:01:28].
There’s never a guarantee when you’re dealing with people. Right? But anyway, but it’s in good shape, right? Yeah. Thank you Kevin, very much.
On this special occasion we are renewing our strong national commitment on conserving the wonders of God’s creation. One of the most important ways we uphold this tradition is by protecting our priceless national parks and our public lands. To support our rollout war against the virus, many of the places that we have here we’re temporary closing, but we will have them open quickly. As we said, we’re starting to open our country again. Thanks to our significant progress against the invisible enemy, I’m pleased to announce that in line with my administration’s guidelines for opening up America again, we will begin to reopen our national parks and public lands for the American people to enjoy. What does that tell us about that, David?
We roll out [inaudible 00:02:30].
Right. Roll out. Good.
We’ll begin to reopen facilities and-
When will they start?
We’ll run right alongside of the government.
That’s great. Okay. That’s going to be very exciting. That’s going to be very exciting. You have a lot of land to open up to, don’t you have. People are going to be very happy. On this Earth Day, we celebrate that America leads the world in environmental stewardship, which is so, so true. I see it. I see the love and devotion that so many people like David, like you give, and that we continue to have among the cleanest air in the cleanest water anywhere on the planet Earth.
We’re also honoring our country’s heritage of conservation, including through the supportive 1 trillion trees and that’s the 1 trillion tree initiative, which is a very big deal we’ll be planting over a period of time 1 trillion trees. That’s a lot of trees. Kevin, how do we do that? Do you have any ideas?
[inaudible 00:03:31].
That’s great. That’s great. That’s going to be exciting. As a sign of our dedication in a few moments, the First Lady and I will plant a maple tree right here on the South Lawn of the White House wherever the tree is. Where is this tree now? That’s a beautiful straight trunk. That’s a triple A tree. That’s great. As our nation grows stronger and greater in the months and years to come and we will. We will be bigger, better, stronger than ever before. You watch what’s happening. You see it happening already. There’s such spirit with the concept of the state starting to open. Such incredible spirit. This tree will grow also. It will stand tall and beautiful and the future generations will be looking at it and they’ll say, “I wonder who planted that tree.” They will say it was Kevin and David and Mike and Karen and a whole group of people. We really appreciate it. But they’ll be a admiring this tree and there’ll be admiring nine more trees.
We’re planting 10 beautiful specimen trees. They’re specimens, all specimens. People may think that’s an exaggeration or that’s a Trump term. Actually they’re sold as specimens. They cost more money but they are better. I buy a lot of them. Now I’d like to invite the Vice President up and Karen to say a few words please. Thank you.
Well, thank you Mr. President. It is a great honor for us to be here on the South Lawn with you and the First Lady to be able to plant a tree of promise and a tree of hope. I know we are here in the midst of National Park Week, just a few days before Arbor Day on the 50th anniversary of Earth Day to plant and commemorate this beautiful maple tree. But as you said, Mr. President, we also gather at a time of great challenge in the life of our nation, but it’s a time the American people have met the challenge. As you’ve observed, Mr. President, that with your leadership, the American people are beginning to step forward. The states around the country beginning to put into practice the guidelines to open up America again. You’re a president who knows that America works when America is working.
On behalf of the entire White House Coronavirus Task Force, I can assure the American people that we’re going to work very closely with your governors every day to get America safely and responsibly back to work. But today with the planning of this tree, Mr. President, you also renew your commitment to preserve and protect and allow for the enjoyment of the vast natural resources of this nation. I’ve often thought that the three pillars of American greatness are our faith, our freedom, and our vast natural resources.
Today, we celebrate that with the planting of this new tree. We also celebrate it with a word from the Secretary that, at your direction in the days ahead, will work closely with governors to reopen our national parks so that the American people can enjoy the blessings of those extraordinary places that our family has traveled to so many different times.
Mr. President, I can tell you that Karen and I have so many fond memories of loading up in the minivan, driving across the country, making our way to Yellowstone and the Grand Canyon and to Yosemite. I know the American people are anxious to see us on this Earth Day 2020, a few days from Arbor Day. They’re anxious to get back to enjoying all of those beautiful parks and will greatly welcome your direction. We thank you for your leadership during this challenging time, Mr. President.
We want to thank the First Lady for her extraordinary compassion, the way she supported American families throughout this ordeal. I’m absolutely convinced that with your continued leadership, with the strong leadership that we have at states across the country with the cooperation of the American people that our nation will be growing again soon. Just like this beautiful maple will for many years to come. Thank you, Mr. President. God bless you.
Thank you very much. Kevin, would you come up and say a few words? Why don’t you stay right there, Mike? Perfect.
Mr. President, First Lady, Vice President, Karen our Second Lady, I want to thank you for your work. I want to thank you for your commitment for the health and safety of every human. Today, we’re witnessing the planting of the tree of the hope and dream that we know tomorrow will be better than today, that the earth will be stronger with our health tomorrow than it was today.
This is the first of 1 trillion trees that will be planted around the world. Trees are the lungs of the earth. They inhale carbon dioxide and they exhale oxygen. When 1 trillion trees are planted around this earth, that will remove the equivalent of two-thirds of all manmade carbon dioxide of all carbon since the Industrial Revolution until today.
As you continue to work for the health of every human, you show today you’re working to make sure the health is even greater with this earth. So I congratulate you on this, and the first of 1 trillion just proves that America will lead the way in every industry, in every part, making it environmentally sound in common sense, but also lead the world in an opportunity that tomorrow will be better. Thank you.
Thank you, Kevin. It was beautiful. Thank you. He gave a lot of facts that a lot of people didn’t know, including me. I thought that… I just spoke with our great First Lady and she said, “You know, it’d be wonderful for Karen Pence to say a few words.” People have no idea the incredible job Karen Pence does representing this nation. Everybody loves her. She’s special in every way. Karen, I’d like to have you say a few words please. She didn’t know this, but I’d like [inaudible 00:09:59].
Thank you, Mr. President. I do cherish the opportunity to speak because David and I were just talking about while this tree makes the earth better and stronger, we talked a lot about mental health. That’s an issue that I know the First Lady has been dealing with her whole time that she’s been First Lady, but I just started doing a little bit with Prevents. We do want people to understand that during this crisis, we need to also mitigate the effects on our mental health. So we ask people to watch out for yourself, check in with yourself every day, check in with those you love. If there’s something that you like to do. For me it’s painting, maybe it’s gardening, maybe it’s reading or cooking. We ask people to schedule that into your day so that you have a little bit of time that’s just for you each day.
Then we also ask that you talk about the struggles, but also talk about the successes. As you have kids who are struggling with not having their graduation ceremony or they’re not being able to go out and play sports or they’re missing their friends or their teachers, it’s important to talk with them and let them get those issues out. But also talk about the successes, some of the great things that are happening while we’re having to stay at home, things you’re learning about your family, games you’re starting to play that maybe you didn’t play before.
Then last of all, if you’re worried about somebody or you’re worried about yourself, please reach out. If you go to facebook.com/weareprevents. There’s so much help out there. We don’t want anybody to feel like there isn’t help because it’s okay to say I’m not okay. Thank you.
That was very nice. Thank you, Karen. That’s great. That’s beautiful. Mike, let’s go over and do it.
Okay.
We ready? Mike, stay right here. Come on, get over here. Karen, you grab that shovel. Come on. You grab it together. Are you ready? Let’s go. Yeah, we’ll do one [inaudible 00:12:22] and then we’ll let everyone. [crosstalk 00:12:32]. Ready? You grab one. We’ll do it. Okay.
Happy birthday, by the way.
That’s good. That’s good. Thank [inaudible 00:12:53]. Sonny? David? Kevin, come on up here. We have plenty of dirt left. Come on. Come up, fellas. This is [inaudible 00:13:05].
This is something we can do very well.
Yeah. [crosstalk 00:13:07]. [crosstalk 00:13:12]. Ready?
Yes.
There you go. Okay. Thank you all. Thank you all. Let’s go.
All right.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. [crosstalk 00:13:40].
To unleash the full power of the federal government in this effort today, I am officially declaring a National Emergency. Two very big words. The action I am taking will open up access to up to 50 billion dollars of very important and a large amount of money for states and territories and localities in our shared fight against this disease.
In furtherance of the order, I’m urging every state to set up emergency operation centers effective immediately. You’re going to be hearing from some of the largest companies and greatest retailers and medical companies in the world. They’re standing right behind me and the side of me. I’m also asking every hospital in this country to activate its emergency preparedness plan so that they can meet the needs of Americans everywhere. The hospitals are very engaged. New York and various other places are also various engaged. I just spoke with governor Cuomo. We had a very good conversation and we’re working very strongly with the many states including New York.
The urgency orders I’m issuing today will also confer broad new authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Secretary of HHS will be able to immediately wave revisions of applicable laws and regulations to give doctors, hospital all hospitals and healthcare providers, maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and care for patients. This includes the following critical authorities, the ability to waive laws to enable telehealth, a fairly new and incredible thing that’s happened in the not so distant past. I tell you what they’ve done with telehealth has incredible. It gives remote doctors visits and hospital check-ins the power to waive certain federal license requirements so that doctors from other states can provide services in states with the greatest need.
Number two, the ability to waive requirements that critical access hospitals limit the number of beds to 25 and the length of stay to 96 hours. The ability to waive the requirements of a three day hospital stay prior to admission to a nursing home; big thing. The authority to waive rules to hinder hospital’s ability to bring additional physicians on board or obtain needed office space. They can do as they want. They can do what they have to do. They know what they have to do. Now they don’t have any problem getting it done.
The authority to waive rules that severely restrict where hospitals can care for patients within the hospital itself. Ensuring that the emergency capacity can be quickly established. We’ll remove or eliminate every obstacle necessary to deliver our people the care that they need and that they’re entitled to. No resource will be spared. Nothing whatsoever. 10 days ago, I brought together the CEOs of commercial labs at the White House and directed them to immediately begin working on the solution to dramatically increase the availability of tests.
Other countries have called us and worked with us and they’re doing similar things or will be doing similar things as a result of that action. Today we are announcing a new partnership with private sector to vastly increase and accelerate our capacity to test for the Coronavirus. We want to make sure that those who need a test can get a test very safely, quickly and conveniently but we don’t want people to take a test if we feel that they shouldn’t be doing it and we don’t want everyone running out and taking; only if you have certain symptoms.
Using federal emergency authorities, the FDA approved a new test for the virus. We did this within hours after receiving the application from Roche, a process that would normally take weeks. We therefore expect up to a half a million additional tests will be available early next week. We’ll be announcing locations probably on Sunday night. I want to thank Roche, great company for their incredible work. I’d also like to thank Thermo Fisher. The FDA’s goal is to hopefully authorize your application within 24 hours. It’ll go very quickly. It’s going very quickly. Which will bring additionally 1.4 million tests on board next week and five million within a month. I doubt we’ll need anywhere near that.
At the same time, we’ve been in discussions with pharmacies and retailers to make drive-through tests available in the critical locations identified by public health professionals. The goal is for individuals to be able to drive up and be swabbed without having to leave your car. I want to thank Google. Google is helping to develop a website. It’s going to be very quickly done, unlike websites of the past, to determine whether a test is warranted and to facilitate testing at a nearby convenient location. And we have many, many locations behind us, by the way. We cover this country and large parts of the world, by the way. We’re not going to be talking about the world right now. But we cover very, very strongly our country.
Stores in virtually every location. Google has 1,700 engineers working on this right now. They’ve made tremendous progress. Our overriding goal is to stop the spread of the virus and to help all Americans who have been impacted by this. Again, we don’t want everybody taking this test. It’s totally unnecessary. And this will pass. This will pass through and we’re going to be even stronger for it. We’ve learned a lot, a tremendous amount has been learned. I want to thank Deborah Birx and I want to ask her maybe to come up and say a few words as to what’s happening. Dr. Birx is a highly respected person. I’ve gotten to know her very well over the last six days and what we’ve done is we built something that was very old, very old fashioned, somewhat obsolete, certainly obsolete when it comes to the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. Dr. Birx, please. Thank you, Deborah.
Thank you, Mr. President. It’s a pleasure to be here with all of you. I think you know at the beginning of this epidemic, HHS through CDC proactively developed an assay, built on the existing flu surveillance system. That surveillance system was then converted to diagnostic system. But last Tuesday, seeing the spread of the virus around the globe, the President realized that our current approach to testing was inadequate to meet the needs of the American public. He asked for an entire overhaul of the testing approach. He immediately called the private sector laboratories to the White House, as noted, and charged them with developing a high throughput quality platform that can meet the needs of the American public.
We are grateful to LabCorp and Quest for taking up the charge immediately after the meeting and within 72 hours, bringing additional testing access, particularly to the outbreak areas of Washington State and California and now across the country. We are also very grateful to the universities and large hospital systems that took up the charge to develop their own quality tests made available by new FDA guidance. This has resolved and expanded testing across New York, California, Washington, Colorado, and you see sometimes those drive-through options that have been made available through these high throughput options.
Following the meeting last week, major commercial laboratory equipment and diagnostic companies took immediate action to adopt and develop new testing systems. Last night, the initial company, Roche, received FDA approval, moving from request, to development, to approval in record time. This innovative approach centered fully on unleashing the power of the private sector, focusing on providing convenient testing to hundreds of thousands of Americans within short turnaround times. In less than two weeks together, we have developed a solution that we believe will meet the future testing needs of Americans. I understand how difficult this has been. I was part of the HIV/AIDS response in the 80s.
We knew from first finding cases in 1981, it took us to almost 1985 to have a test. It took us another 11 years to have effective therapy. It is because of the lessons learned from that, that we were able to mobilize and bring those individuals that were key to the HIV response to this response. I understand that a lot of this behind the scenes action over the last couple of weeks was invisible to the press and the American people, but this intense effort has not only resulted in innovative solutions, but an automated high throughput system bringing the availability of these quality corona-viral testing to the American people at unprecedented speed.
Finally, I want you to know in South Korea, they did have a large number of tests available over the last several weeks. Their positivity rate is between three and 4%. With LabCorp and Quest expanded testing, their positivity rate is between one and 2%. So we want to also announce this new approach to testing, which we’ll start in this screening website up here facilitated by Google, where clients and patients and people of interest can go, fill out a screening questionnaire, move down for symptoms or risk factors. Yes, they would move down this and be told where the drive-through options would be for them to receive this test. The labs will then move to the high throughput automated machines to be able to provide results in 24 to 36 hours. That is the intent of this approach. We have seen it work just in our own United States and we want to bring this across the continent. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. [inaudible 00:06:49]. I’d like to maybe have, Tony, do you want to come up? You’ve become a … I think everybody out here knows you pretty well, but Tony has been doing a tremendous job working long, long hours and you’ve seen a lot happen, but this has been … It’s been a great experience and working with you has been terrific. Tony, please.
Hold the mic down [inaudible 00:07:11].
Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is an example of another example of what I’ve been referring to in my discussions with many of you in the audience as a proactive leaning forward, aggressive, trying to stay ahead of the curve. And what you’ve seen now with this order is that we’re going to be able to remove the constraints so that people at the state, the local level, the individual physician, all the way up through the federal government will have as many constraints as possible, removed for them to do everything they possibly can so that we can implement the things that we’ve been talking about.
The containment, the mitigation, so that as I’ve said, many times, that curve that I refer to that goes up. We don’t want to have that curve. We want to suppress it down to that small mound and I think what we’ve done today is something that is going to be a very important element in having us be successful in doing that. We still have a long way to go. There will be many more cases, but we’ll take care of that. And ultimately, as the President said, this will end, but what’s going on here today is going to help it to end sooner than it would have. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Tony. If I could, some of these folks, we know they’re celebrities in their own right. They’re the biggest business people, the greatest retailers anywhere in the world, and one of them is Doug McMillon from Walmart and I’d like to have Doug, if you would say a few words wherever you may be. [inaudible 00:08:46] Doug, please.
When we got the call yesterday from the White House, we were eager to do our part to help serve the country. And given what we’re facing, that’s certainly important to do. We should all be doing that. So we’ve been asked to make portions of our parking lot available in select locations in the beginning and scaling over time as supply increases so that people can experience the drive-through experience that the President described. We’ll stay involved and do everything we can from a supply chain point of view to be of assistance. Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much, Doug. Appreciate it very much. I’ll just stay right over here, and Richard, if you could come up please. Richard, please. Walgreens. Thank you.
Yep. Thank you, Mr. President. And similar to Doug and Walmart, we’re happy to stand in here and help in communities all across America, because a lot of times when we have natural disasters, our stores are a beacon in the community and this situation is no different. So we look forward to partnering with the CDC, the administration, HHS, and the taskforce and specifically to the Vice President’s doing such a fantastic job. We’re ready to engage and help. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Brian Cornell, Target. Thank you, Brian. Thank you. Please.
Well, Mr. President, thank you for inviting us here today along with our colleagues from Walmart, and Walgreens, and our partners at CVS. Normally, you’d view us as competitors, but today we’re focused on a common competitor and that’s defeating the spread of the coronavirus. And we look forward to working with the administration to do our fair share to alleviate this growing threat. So thank you for including us today. In the near term, we’re all committed to making sure we’re keeping our stores open to serve the American consumer who’s rapidly stocking up on household essentials, key food and beverage items that they need during this time. Making sure we run safe stores and create an environment that’s safe for our team members, making sure that they feel supported during this very critical time. So thank you for including us.
Thank you very much. Great job.
Great job.
Is Tom here? Tom Polen. Tom? Tom Polen, please.
Thank you, Mr. President. As a CEO of Becton Dickinson, we’re one of the leading providers of medical devices as well as collection products for testing of coronavirus. We were ramping up our manufacturing capacity to ensure that the right collection devices and testing equipment are ready to address this issue. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much, Tom. Great job you’ve done. [Steven Rakowski 00:00:11:10], Quest Diagnostics. Please. Great job. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. So as mentioned, we were called through the leadership of the Vice President last week to come together as an industry and we took advantage of that opportunity to work with the FDA, to work with the Center for Disease Control and we were up and running with tests in a number of our facilities. As the President mentioned, we now have capabilities from Roche Diagnostics that we will bring into our facilities this weekend. And I know myself and as my colleague at LabCorp will be doing the same. So the capacity available to the American public to support this action with consumers will be considerably increased in the next few weeks. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Thanks.
And Matt Sause, please, of Roche. Matt. Thank you, Matt.
Thank you, Mr. President. So from Roche, we want to thank the FDA for their rapid approval of our coronavirus test. We really appreciate the partnership with the CDC and the FDA to get that to market as fast as possible, because it’s critical for us to make that available to help patients in need and working with laboratories to get it up and going in the near future, which will bring hundreds of thousands of tests available to patients in need in the United States. So thank you.
And you can do it. You can do it.
You can.
You’re a great company. David Pierre of Signify. Signify Health, please. Excellent.
Great. Thank you, Mr. President. We are the largest house call provider in the US and we go to the homes of the most vulnerable elderly and through our network and our logistics engine, we stand ready to help and provide our clinicians to be where they’re needed, whether they’re in retail clinics or in the home. And we’re here to assist. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. And we’ll be changing a lot of the rules, regulations for future should this happen in the future, which we hope it never does, but it will, I guess, somewhere out there. We had some bad ones over the years and I guess that’ll continue to an extent, but we hope it never happens. But we are going to be changing a lot of the old rules and specifications and regulations. Adam Schechter, who’s really been of tremendous help. LabCorp, please. Adam.
Thank you, Mr. President. At LabCorp, we’re working every second of every day to increase the number of tests that we can run. We’re working with academic medical centers, with our colleagues at Quest, with other hospital and other laboratories to ensure that we do everything we can to increase the testing as we move forward. And I can tell you, we understand how important the testing is and we are committed to doing everything possible.
Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you.
Great.
Thomas Moriarty, CVS. We all know CVS. Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you, Thomas.
Thank you, Mr. President. We have been focused since the start of making sure our patients and the customers we serve have the information they need, the safety they need as well. We are committed to working with the administration and local public health officials to make this work as well. And thank you sir for the honor.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks. Great job. And Bruce Greenstein, LHC Group. Tremendously talented people. Thank you very much.
Mr. President, thank you for the honor of being here. And the home health industry has been treating patients and seniors in the safety and comfort of their own home for decades. We’re very proud to be part of the equation for testing in their own home. For Americans that can’t get to a test site or live in rural areas far away from a retail establishment, we’re here to help and to partner with our hospitals and physicians as well as the people we have here today that will be doing testing around the country. Thank you.
Thanks very much. [crosstalk 00:15:02].
We’ll practice that.
Okay. I like that. That’s good. We’re also announcing the following emergency executive actions today. To help our students and their families, I’ve waived interest in all student loans held by the federal government agencies and that will be until further notice. That’s a big thing for a lot of students that are left in the middle right now. Many of those schools have been closed. Based on the price of oil, I’ve also instructed the Secretary of Energy to purchase, at a very good price, large quantities of crude oil for storage in the US, strategic reserve.
We’re going to fill it right up to the top, saving the American taxpayer billions and billions of dollars, helping our oil industry and making us even further toward that wonderful goal which we’ve achieved, which nobody thought was possible of energy independence. It puts us in a position that’s very strong and we’re buying it at the right price. And that’s something that would have not even been possible a week ago. The price of oil went down quite a bit, so we’re going to fill it up. It’s a good time to fill it up. I’d like to ask Mike Pence to say a few words please. VP.
Thank you, Mr. President. This day should be an inspiration to every American, because thanks to your leadership from early on, not only are we bringing a whole of government approach to confronting the coronavirus, we’re bringing an all of America approach. Mr. President, from early on you took decisive action. You suspended all travel from China, you created travel advisories to South Korea and Italy. We screened all travelers from all airports in both of those countries. And on the unanimous recommendation of your health experts, you at midnight tonight will effectively suspend all travel from Europe and Americans that were returning will be screened and asked to voluntarily participate in a 14-day quarantine.
Throughout this process, Mr. President, you’ve put the health of America first, but you brought the best of America to address it. And it’s not just at the federal level. As you said, Mr. President, we’ve been working with states across the country. We issued broad guidelines from the CDC for every American. But this week at your direction, we tailored specific recommendations from CDC for New York, Washington State, California, Massachusetts and Florida. And we’ve been in continuous contact, as you said, with governors around the country. Mr. President, you have forged a seamless partnership with every state and every territory in this country to put the health of our nation first.
But today, I trust that people around the country that are looking on at this extraordinary public and private partnership to address the issue of testing with particular inspiration. After you tapped me to lead the White House Corona Taskforce, Mr. President, you said this is all hands on deck and you directed us to immediately reach out to the American business sector, commercial labs to meet what we knew then would be the need for testing across the spectrum. And today, with this historic public- private partnership, we have laid the foundation to meet that need. For Americans looking on, by this Sunday evening, we’ll be able to give specific guidance on when the website will be available.
You can go to the website, as the President said. You’ll type in your symptoms and be given direction whether or not a test is indicated. And then at the same website you’ll be directed to one of these incredible companies that are going to give a little bit of their parking lot so that people can come by and do a drive by test. Mr. President, I want to join you in thanking Walmart, and CVS, and Target, and Walgreen. These are companies that are synonymous with communities, large and small, where people come together and now they’re going to come together to meet the needs of the American public. These commercial laboratories, LabCorp, and Quest, and Roche have just done an incredible job stepping forward and they’re going to literally make, literally make hundreds and thousands of tests available and being processed with results to patients in the very near future.
But it’s all a result of you tasking us with bringing together not just government resources, which all state labs can now test across the country. CDC is testing. But you said, Mr. President, that we wanted to bring all the resources of the country together and that’s what this partnership really means. Truth is that we have coronavirus cases now in 46 American states and while the risk of serious illness of the coronavirus remains low, we want to encourage every American to practice common sense, practice good hygiene, go to the CDC’s website to see what the guidance is for your community, or for the American people broadly. And as the President has said, it’s especially important now that we look after senior citizens with chronic underlying health conditions.
Last week the President directed the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services to raise the standards in our nursing homes, increase inspections at our nursing homes. And today, we’re offering very specific guidance, which Seema Verma will articulate about visitations at nursing homes. It’s important to remember that they were there for us when we were growing up, Mr. President. They helped us with our homework. They tucked us in at night, they cheered us on as we pursued educations, cheered us on in our careers. Now it’s time for us to be there for them and to recognize that seniors with chronic health conditions are the most vulnerable and Americans can make a difference. So wash your hands. Use common sense. Look after the most vulnerable. And Mr. President, I know I join you in saying that every American should be proud of this incredible public private partnership that’s going to be speeding access of testing to millions of Americans in the weeks ahead. And together, as you’ve said many times, together we’ll get through this, together we’ll put the health of America first.
Thank you.
[inaudible 00:21:28].
Seema? Where’s Seema? I’d like you to maybe take that a step further please on nursing homes.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you. Well, thank you to the President for the declaration. It allows my agency, CMS, that runs Medicare and Medicaid and has oversight of all of the nation’s healthcare facilities to suspend regulations that could get in the way of treating patients during this time. These temporary national blanket waivers are reserved for the rarest of circumstances and they represent a massive mobilization of our country’s resources to combat this terrible virus. And the flexibilities we are offering will be a Godsend to the providers, clinicians, and facilities on the front lines of this fight.
And later, CMS is going to be issuing guidance, directing nursing homes to temporarily restrict all visitors and non-essential personnel with a few exceptions such as end of life situations. We fully appreciate that this measure represents a severe trial for residents of nursing homes and those who love them, but we are doing what we must to protect our vulnerable elderly. Thank you.
Thank you very much. As I said in my address to the nation the other night, all Americans have a role to play in defeating this virus. Our most effective weapon right now is to limit the damage to our people and our country and slow the spread of the virus itself. The choice we make-
… spread of the virus itself. The choice we make, the precautions we put into place, are critical to overcoming the virus, reducing its spread and shortening the duration of the pandemic which is what it is. The CDC has published guidelines on the coronavirus.gov to enable… It’s coronavirus.gov. It’s very heavily used right now, I will say, to enable every American to respond to this epidemic and to protect themselves, their families and their communities. While the risks to young and healthy Americans remains very low, we’ve learned a lot about this over the last two weeks. Anyone can be a carrier for the virus and risk transmission to older Americans and those with underlying health conditions. And those who are most at risk, they have not done very well. Older Americans, especially if they have a health problem, they have not done well.
We must take all precautions and be responsible for the actions that we take, and that we see other people take. We want to prevent the spread and transmission of the disease. It’s incredible what’s happening with the sporting world, where so many of the great sports that we’ve gotten so used to at this time of the year, they’re not going to be meeting. They’ve done a great service, actually. But that would be another way that problems could be caused.
But this is why I outlined on Wednesday night, my administration’s… The fact that we’ve issued a requirement suspending all medically unnecessary visits to various places. But in particular, nursing homes. We should all be working off the same playbook when it comes to protecting Americans. We have to. We need to be consistent in adopting measures to limit the spread of the virus. The virus is the same whether it’s spreading in cities, towns, or rural communities. The tools and tactics for attacking it are similar, no matter where you go. No matter where you go, you have some hotspots throughout the world right now that people would have never thought possible, and they’re being very seriously affected.
Key among these efforts, are breaking chains of transmission between people. These measures have been adopted by many companies, universities and schools. We want to protect the safety and the health of their employees and their students. I encourage everyone to follow the guidelines we’ve issued by CDC, and these common sense measures. A lot of it is common sense. For the areas where the virus is spreading, the CDC is advising communities to postpone large gatherings, postpone assemblies, social functions and sporting events, stagger recess and lunch for schools that aren’t canceled, limit in-person meetings, increase scheduled cleanings, and cancel work-sponsored travel, among numerous other steps that can be taken.
Americans are the strongest and most resilient people on Earth. And in the coming weeks, we will all have to make changes and sacrifices. But these short term sacrifices will produce long term gain. Again, I’ve said we’re learning a lot for the future and future problems like this, or worse. Or worse, it could get worse. The next eight weeks are critical. We can learn, and we will turn a corner on this virus. Some of the doctors say it will wash through and will flow through, in interesting terms, very accurate. I think you’re going to find in a number of weeks, it’s going to be a very accurate term.
In times of hardship. The true character of America always shines through. We live in the company of the greatest heroes and the most inspiring citizens anywhere in the world. We want to take care of our people. We want to draw on the strength of our history, draw on the strength of our people. Then we will get through this. All together, we will just get through it. So much progress has already been made. And frankly, the numbers because the steps that have been taken, are at a level that a lot of people are surprised… especially when you compare them with other places with far smaller populations.
The spirit and the will of our nation is unbreakable. We will defeat this threat. When America is tested, America rises to the occasion. And to those families and citizens who are worried and concerned for themselves and their loved ones, I want you to know that your federal government will unleash every authority, resource and tool at its disposal, to safeguard the lives and health of our people. So we’re with you every step of the way. No nation is more prepared or more equipped to face down this crisis.
As you know, we are rated number one in the world. We’re also helping other nations. Many of the nations, we’re helping them a lot. And they are doing okay in some cases. In some cases, they are not doing well at all. But we’re working with a lot of groups of people and a lot of other nations. With faith and heart and hope and love and determination, we will succeed. We will prevail. We will be very, very successful. And we’ll learn for the future. Thank you all very much. If you have any questions, we can take some. Go ahead, John, please. And if you’d like to ask some of the folks up here, it would be fine. Please.
Mr. President, where are you with the House bill? Yesterday, we talked to you in the Oval Office. You were opposed to it. What has happened since then, and what’s the holdup on that?
Well, we just don’t think they’re giving enough. We don’t think the Democrats are giving enough. We’re negotiating. We thought we had something. But all of a sudden, they didn’t agree to certain things that they agreed to. So we could have something, but we don’t think they’re giving enough. They’re not doing what’s right for the country.
And if I could ask Dr. Fauci.
Go ahead, please.
Thank you, Mr. President. You just mentioned waiving interest for student loans.
Yeah.
You talked about buying oil from the SPR, or adding to the SPR. What other specific targeted measures is your administration thinking about taking? The Treasury Secretary, Steve Mnuchin, said today that you’re just in the second inning of things that you might be undergoing.
Yeah. Well, that’s true. We are looking at many different things, as you know. Some of them, they’ve been written about very widely. But we’re going to be releasing a paper in about two hours stating quite a few other steps, very important ones. Please, go ahead.
One more sir, if you wouldn’t mind.
Please, go ahead.
Thank you so much, Mr. President. I want to know if you are in contact with the Brazilian President, Bolsonaro, after a member of his delegation who was with you Saturday, was tested positive. And also, I want to ask another question if you’ll let me. Senators Lindsey Graham and also Senator Scott, Rick Scott, are self-isolating. Are you planning to take any kind of precautionary measure to protect you, and also your staff who was there?
No. We have a no symptoms, whatsoever. We had a great meeting with the President of Brazil, Bolsonaro. Great guy, a very tremendous… He’s doing a fantastic job for Brazil. As you know, he tested negative. Meaning, nothing wrong this morning, and we got that word too. Because we did have dinner with him. We were sitting next to each other for a long period of time.
But are you in contact with him over the coronavirus crisis?
We’re talking about it, country to country. But we did discuss if he had a problem. It was reported that he may have it, and he doesn’t, fortunately. Yeah.
Thank you so much, Mr. President. Dr. Fauci said earlier this week that the lag in testing was in fact, failing. Do you take responsibility for that? And when can you guarantee that every single American who needs a test will be able to have a test? What’s the date of that?
Yeah. No, I don’t take responsibility at all because we were given a set of circumstances, and we were given rules, regulations and specifications from a different time. It wasn’t meant for this kind of an event with the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. And what we’ve done is, redesigned it very quickly with the help of the people behind me. We’re now in very, very strong shape. I think we’ll be announcing, as I said, Sunday night. This will start very quickly. We’ll have the ability to do in the millions over a very, very quick period of time. So, no.
What we have done and we are going to be leaving a very indelible print for the future in case something like this happens again. But it was a… And that’s not the fault of anybody. Frankly, the old system worked very well for smaller numbers, much smaller numbers, but not for these kinds of numbers. Tony, maybe you’d like to say something.
By Sunday night, will have… yes, please. By Sunday night, will every American be able to get a test?
So just to reiterate what I said to many of you multiple times, it’s a dissent of a system. The system was not designed… For what it was designed for, it worked very well. The CDC designed a good system. If you want to get the kind of blanket testing and availability that anybody can get it, or you could even do surveillance to find out what the penetrance is, you have to embrace the private sector. And this is exactly what you’re seeing, because you can’t do it without it. So when I said that, I meant the system was not designed for what we need. Now looking forward, the system will take care of it.
Mr. President, with respect-
And interestingly, if you go back… Please. If you go back to the swine flu, it was nothing like this. They didn’t do testing like this. And actually, they lost approximately 14,000 people. And they didn’t do the testing. They started thinking about testing when it was far too late. What we’ve done and one of the reasons I think people are respecting what we’ve done, we’ve done it very early. We’ve gotten it very early, and we’ve also kept a lot of people out.
Mr. President. Mr. President.
Yes. Please, go ahead.
The last administration that they had tested a million people at this point. You’ve been-
Well, ask them how they did with the swine flu. It was a disaster.
But with respect-
Next, please. Next, please. They had a very big failure with swine flu, a very big failure.
Mr. President, I want to ask you about the European travel ban that goes into effect at midnight tonight, and the exemption that you’ve offered to the U.K. There are 17 countries that are in the so-called Schengen Zone that have fewer coronavirus cases than the U.K. And just in the past 24 hours, the U.K. has added 208 coronavirus cases to their total. Why do they, Mr. President, deserve an exemption? And would you consider adding them to this travel ban list?
Well, that was recommended to me by a group of professionals. We are looking at it based on the new numbers that are coming out, and we may have to include them in the list of countries that we will… you could say ban or whatever it is, during this period of time. But yeah, their numbers have gone up fairly precipitously over the last 24 hours, so we may be adding that. And we may be adding a couple of others. And we may frankly, start thinking about taking some off. Go ahead.
Thank you, Mr President. I’m a correspondent with Hong Kong Phoenix TV. You have mentioned that the number in China has been decreasing, and China has made tremendous progress in the past weeks.
True.
I’m wondering, how much confidence does this give you to control the virus in the United States? And do you think the data China has been sharing with the United States has been helpful?
I think it has been helpful. We have been working very much with China. I’ve spoken, as you know, with President Xi. They went through hell. Their numbers are starting to look very good. They’re really looking very good. We’re very happy about that. We are sharing data, yes. In fact, we’re sharing quite a bit of data, including the fact that some of our pharmaceutical companies are working over there right now with large groups of people. Yeah. Go ahead, please.
Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke with Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau yesterday.
Yes, sir.
Did you discuss the potential closing of the border between Canada and the U.S.? And by extension, are you considering ways to salvage the $2 billion daily trade between the two countries?
So we didn’t discuss the border. We’ve had a very good relationship. Just about finished with the USMCA, as you know. He called. Actually, he called me to tell me that. I think that was the primary reason for the call. At the time, his wife had not been diagnosed. She’s a lovely lady, wonderful lady, great lady. Since then, I’ve heard, read, that the result was that she has it. I was a little surprised. I think he was surprised also. We did discuss it prior, too. She’s going to be fine. But he thought that she would not most likely have the virus. Unfortunately, she does. But we didn’t discuss the border yesterday, no. Go ahead, please. If you have any questions for these great geniuses up here, you should, even a business question related to what we’re talking about.
Mr. President, Ross Palombo from ABC News Miami. As a relatively new Floridian, what is your message today to the cruise line industry and the travel industry, that Florida depends upon? And since Senator Rick Scott and Miami Dade Mayor Carlos A. Giménez have the same exposure as you and they are self-isolating, what’s your message to them, that they shouldn’t be?
Well, I don’t know that I had exposure, but I don’t have any of the symptoms. We do have a White House doctor. I should say, many White House doctors, frankly. I asked them that same question, and they said, “You don’t have any symptoms whatsoever.” We don’t want people without symptoms to go and do the test. The test is not insignificant. As far as the cruise line business, we’re with them all the way. It’s a great business. It’s a great U.S. business, frankly. I know how important they are to the country. That includes airlines. But the cruise line business obviously, was hit very hard.
We had a tremendous success out in Oakland, where moved… Vice President Pence did a fantastic job with that. We worked with U.K., we worked with Canada. They took their people back in. Canada’s approximately 600 people. U.K. likewise, took a large number of people back to the United Kingdom. We have people quarantined. It was a big operation, and it worked out really… You don’t hear about it anymore. It worked out really well. Mike, you may even want to say something about that, because that was really done properly.
Well, thank you, Mr. President. That program with the Grand Princess, the ship, is continuing to be administered in the highest standards. Orderly way, as the President directed. Americans that needed treatment have received them. I spoke to the Governor of Iowa today, and some of those who now have been cleared are able in proper supervision, to be returning to Iowa. They’re making arrangements for them to do that. Others in Texas, others in Georgia. Again, it’s another example of the extraordinary cooperation. Governor Abbott, Governor Gavin Newsom, Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia.
But to add to that, the President directed me last Saturday to travel down to Miami. We met with all the leaders of the cruise line industry. Several cruise lines have announced a 60-day pause in operations. Our Department of Homeland Security has praised them for doing that, because of the unique health challenges particularly presented to seniors with underlying conditions. We have a proposal from the cruise line industry, but they’re currently considering what other steps that they might take. Perhaps even similar to what those other lines have taken. We’re anticipating some response on that in the next 24 hours.
But as the President said, the American people cherish our cruise line industry. The men and women who work on the ships, the men and women who work on the shore. All the economies that are so benefited by a vibrant cruise line industry. And what the President has directed us to do is… whether there is a pause in the moment as some cruise lines are doing. And as we all continue to discuss, we want to work with the cruise line industry to ensure that when we come through this, the cruise lines and the medical services that are available and for the passengers and all of the crew, that cruise lines are safer than ever before, and can prosper for many years to come.
Go ahead, please.
This question is for Drs. Fauci and Berks. Dr. Fauci, based on what you currently know, what is the trajectory for when this outbreak will peak? How long will the American people have to remain on this emergency footing? And for Dr. Berks, as the administration tries to get its arms around this test kit shortage issue, the next glaring need could respirators and related hospital equipment. So what is the administration doing right now to ramp up production of respirators and that kind of equipment, should this outbreak persist?
When you have an outbreak like this, particularly if you’re trying to interfere with it, it’s really impossible to predict the time element of when it’s going to peak and when it’s naturally going to go down. So if you look at the situation where countries really did not get to the point of trying to contain and mitigate very well, you see a peak over several weeks, and then down again over other several weeks. What we’re trying to do with the efforts that we’re doing, is to blunt that peak. And I mentioned it many times. And I think it’s important and appropriate for me to mention it again, because it answers your question.
When you talk about preventing infections from without in, which is the kind of travel restrictions we’re talking about, then how do you handle what you already have in your country? You continue some sort of containment, but you also do mitigation. And you try to proportionate to the areas where there are the most infections. The success of that and how much you make this turn into this, is going to give you the amount of time. If we’re successful, it’ll be less. If we’re not successful, it’s going to be more. But these kind of things generally run out in a few months. Hopefully, we’ll make it several weeks. Eight, nine, whatever weeks. But I can’t give you a number, because it depends on how successful we are.
Great. Thank you. It’s a great question. Dr. Fauci and I have worked together a very long time, and continue. It’s a privilege to work with him every day. I think you can learn very… I appreciate there was some graphics done by some of the reporting over the last several days. If you align the data from China with the data with South Korea, you can start to see almost a complete overlay of that data. So that’s what we’re tracking very closely, as well as Italy.
But you have an excellent question. I just want to make one note. In South Korea, I want to repeat, only 4% of the tests were positive. That means 96% of the people had a different respiratory disease. Because we’re in the middle of flu season, cold season, and all of the other respiratory diseases that we get every day. In LabCorp and Quest’s early data, they’re running about 1% to 2% positive. That means that we have a lot more other respiratory disease out there besides the coronavirus, and that’s why the screening is critical. But even with the screening, we’re going to run what we think are very low rates.
Needless to say though, we’re taking it extraordinarily seriously to plan for what could come. What Dr. Fauci talked about, blunting the curve, that makes it much less high need at that peak of the curve that we’re all planning for. So we’re in full inventory of all of our assets by the President, on lacking and this emergency order and the Secretary of HHS’s ability. It unlocks all of those stockpiles, those needs. What the VA has, what the DOD has, what the National Guard has, and what every hospital has. The hospital emergency preparedness plan allows them to defer elective issues to keep those hospital beds open for those who might need it. So we’re in full planning mode for each of those things.
I might add that we are in the process and in some cases have already done it, ordered a large number of respirators just in case. We hope we don’t need them, but we’ve ordered a large number. Yeah. Go ahead, please.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your speech to the nation, you mentioned the situation in China and South Korea have improved. And you are thinking about remove the restrictions, also the warning in place right now. When can we expect that announcement, and how do you see the overall progress that Asian countries made?
Well, some were making progress. Some are not, as you know. But some are making progress. And as they make progress, as they get down to the number that we all think is right, that they know is right, we know is right, we’ll be opening it up. Some are really moving along rapidly. We hope to be able to open things up as quickly as possible. Go ahead, please. Go ahead.
Mr. President, I’d like to ask Secretary Azar and Dr. Fauci, just how… Dr. Fauci, okay.
Right, better. Better. Not 100%, but 90%.
Right.
Go ahead.
This affects the elderly, primarily. In that sense, it’s an unusual disease. Is any specific research being done as to why it affects our senior citizens more than others?
I don’t mean to diminish your question, but we already know why it would affect senior citizens more. Because when you talk about anything that requires a robust immune system, as you get older, your immune system is not as potent as it is when you were young. And that’s the reason why when you talk about-
When you were young, and that’s the reason why when you talk about even influenza, which we have extraordinary experience with over decades and decades, the people who are very vulnerable are the elderly and those with underlying conditions. The same thing holds true for a variety of other disease. Why cancer is more prevalent in some, in mostly in older individuals. Of course, the immune system that screens for it is less robust, so it really is something that is kind of well known over a lot of studies.
Okay. OAN please. OAN.
Mr. President, the Chinese officials are expressing some tones of discontent with where the source of this virus has come from, and they’re spinning some odd narratives. What are your response to the Chinese officials who are doing that, and have they signaled any kind of resistance to upcoming trade talks in response to how we’re handling this virus?
No. We have our deal with China. They’re going to be buying $250 billion worth of goods and 50 billion from our farmers, and it’s a great deal for our country. It’s about time somebody did that and, frankly, phase two, we’ll start negotiating. I did read one article, but I don’t think that article was representative, certainly not in my conversations with President Xi, and they know where it came from. We all know where it came from.
Thank you, Mr. President. Yamiche Alcindor from PBS News Hour.
Yes.
My first question is, you said that you don’t take responsibility, but you did disband the White House pandemic office and the officials that were working in that office left this administration abruptly, so what responsibility do you take to that? The officials that worked in that office said that the White House lost valuable time because that office wasn’t disbanded. What do you make of that?
I just think it’s a nasty question, because what we’ve done is … and Tony had said numerous times that we’ve saved thousands of lives because of the quick closing. When you say ‘me’, I didn’t do it. We have a group of people I could ask, perhaps in my administration, but I could perhaps ask Tony about that, because I don’t know anything about it. You say we did that. I don’t know anything about it.
You don’t know about the reorganization that happened at the National Security Council?
[crosstalk 00:48:30]. It’s the administration. Perhaps they do that. People let people go. You used to be with a different newspaper than you are now. Things like that happen.
But this wasn’t-
Okay, please go ahead.
We’re doing a great job. Let me tell you, these professionals behind me and these great, incredible doctors and business people, the best in the world. I can say that whether it’s retailers or labs or anything you want to say, these are the best in the world. We’re doing a great job. We have 40 people right now. 40. Compare that with other countries that have many, many times that amount. One of the reasons we have 40 and others have … and again, that number’s going up, just so you understand, and a number of cases which are very small, relatively speaking, it’s going up, but we’ve done a great job because we acted quickly, we acted early, and there’s nothing we could have done that was better than closing our borders to highly infected areas.
Please, go ahead.
Thank you, Mr. President. Vanessa [inaudible 00:49:24] for NTN24 for all Latin American countries and also for Spain, [foreign language 00:49:29]. I would like to ask you two very brief questions. One, for how long we’re going to have the national emergency?
I hope not long, but it’s there now and it gives tremendous powers for things that we need. Tremendous power actually, and the Stafford Act and various other things that we’re involved with and have studied and memorized in so many different ways and forms. It gives the kind of power that we need to get rid of this virus, and we’re going to do it very quickly, and I hope we won’t need it very long, but whatever it takes.
For now, we still don’t know for how long? I have something very important I wanted to ask you is, do you really think it’s essential coordinating with other countries and learning from the lessons that they already suffered the same situation? Countries, of course, like China and South Korea, but now recently Italy and Spain, and how is that coordination done? Thank you so much, Mr. President.
We’re in touch with Italy, and it’s a country that we love. We have millions and millions of people originally from Italy, and we’re working with them. They’re in, probably relatively speaking, the toughest position of all. We’re in touch with everybody. When I say everybody, we’re in touch with many of the countries that you know about that you’re writing about, and they’re calling us asking for advice. They’re asking for the advice of the people behind me. Italy’s got a tough situation, but they have really clamped down, and I think they’re going to see some very good results. It’s tough what they did. They really took their medicine, but they’re going to see some much better results.
Yeah, Jeff.
Thank you, sir. With regard to domestic travel, should Americans feel safe, or should Americans at all be traveling to states such as Washington state, New York, and other hotspots within this country? And a followup on Brazil. You’re asking people who come back from Europe, Americans who are coming back from Europe, to self-quarantine for a couple weeks. You were in a picture with somebody who now has Coronavirus from Brazil at Mar-a-Lago. How is that different?
Well, I’ll tell you. First of all, I’m not coming back from someplace.
But you were exposed.
There was somebody that they say has it. I have no idea who he is, but I take pictures and it lasts for literally seconds. I don’t know the gentleman that we’re talking about. I have no idea who he is. I haven’t seen the picture. It’s said there’s a picture of somebody, but I take sometimes hundreds of pictures a day, and that night I was taking hundreds of pictures, so I just don’t know. Now, I did sit with the President for probably two hours, but he’s tested negative, so that’s good.
It’s just a matter of-
Please, go. Go ahead, please.
I would say if you stay home, it’s not bad. It’s not bad. Now, there are certain parts of the country that essentially have zero problem. Washington’s been very tough, in particular, nursing home, but the state of Washington’s been very tough. When you talk about the 40 deaths, that’s been a big percentage of the deaths, as you know very well, and they all came from a certain area, unfortunately.
Please, go ahead. Go ahead. Okay.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. Cordelia Lynch, Sky News. You talk this week about the UK doing a good job in tackling Coronavirus. In light of the rise in cases, are you changing your mind about that? You also just spoke about possible travel restrictions. Have you discussed when they might be put in place?
As we discussed before, in light of the results, we’re going to be looking at it and I know the task force is looking at it very strongly. Vice President, everybody. It was looking good, but the results have been building up pretty rapidly, so we’ll be taking another look at that. Yes, absolutely.
Go ahead, please.
Mr. President, thank you. I want to first follow up on Jeff’s question, because the person you were standing next to, whether you know who he is or not, tested positive for Coronavirus. Dr. Fauci said this morning, if you stand next to somebody who tested positive, you should self-isolate and get a test. You say your White House doctor is telling you something different. Who should Americans listen to? My second question is-
I think they have to listen to their doctors, and I think they shouldn’t be jumping to get the tests unless it’s necessary, but I think they have to listen to their doctors. I haven’t seen the picture. Somebody said there’s a picture of somebody taking a picture with me, but I haven’t seen it, but I can tell you-
Doctors have said you might have it even if you don’t have symptoms. Are you being selfish by not getting tested and potentially exposing-
I didn’t say I wasn’t going to be tested.
Are you going to be?
Most likely, yeah. Most likely.
When do think that’ll happen?
Not for that reason, but because I think I will do it anyway.
Will you let us know the results?
Fairly soon. We’re working on that. We’re working out a schedule.
My second question, Mr. President. That was a follow-up.
You, go ahead please. Go ahead. Yeah.
I know there’s been a lot of talk about testing. I just want to make sure we’re clear though, because we’ve been hearing from doctors who say, as of today, they still can’t get patients tested who need a test. As of today, can everyone who a doctor wants to have tested get tested? If not, when? When will doctors-
That’s been true for a while, but I’ll let Mike … Why don’t you answer that, Mike?
As the President said, and Dr. Fauci has articulated, the nature of our current system where the CDC has samples sent and tests are performed or state labs perform tests, or in some cases, university and hospital labs perform tests, is generally adequate for an infectious disease or for people getting diagnostic work done, but given the sheer scale of this, the President tasked us with bringing together this extraordinary public and private partnership. Today, by some estimates, when you add all the labs together, and today the President made it possible for every state in the country and their state labs to authorize labs across their state to do Coronavirus testing.
We’re estimating somewhere between 15 and 20,000 tests a day are able to be performed, but very soon with the program that was announced today, Americans will be able to visit one of the sites closest to them, as described on the website, if they’re symptomatic, if the questionnaire indicates it, be able to have a test there, and these incredible companies will process the test and they’ll receive that information. For now, the best advice that we can give for people is to speak to their doctor, as the President just said. If the doctor indicates, that physician, if it’s not a university hospital or an otherwise authorized lab, can contact the state lab.
Again, every state lab in the country can perform tests today, but what the President charged us with when I was tasked to take over the White House Coronavirus task force was open up tests all across the country. The President said a few days ago that we made it clear that any American that wanted to get a test would be able clinically to get a test. I literally heard from the Governor of Washington state who said the doctors in Washington state were saying that if you were only mildly symptomatic, they would not order a test. Fortunately, the President directed CDC to clarify that. Now anyone in consultation with their physician, regardless of their symptoms, can request a test, and their doctors will contact those agencies, those labs in their state, but very soon, Americans will be able to go to these drive-in sites and be able to obtain and participate in a test.
Dr. Burks, is there more to amplify that?
No, I think that’s perfectly said. Just to review one more time about the testing, with Lab Corp and Quest, I think many of you have been to doctor’s office and seen the little boxes outside. What they do is they deliver both the specimen collection piece, because remember it’s a nasal swab, it’s not a tube of blood, so they’ve delivered that to doctor’s offices and hospitals, and then they will arrange to pick that up. The important piece in this all is they’ve gone from a machine that may have a lower throughput to the potential to have automated extraction. I know you don’t want all these details, but it’s really key for the laboratory people. It’s an automated extraction of the RNA that then runs in an automated way on the machine with no one touching it, and the result comes out at the other end. Sample to machine to results. That cuts out a lot of the manual pieces that were happening that were delaying the test results.
So with that, what’s the timeline like from when you’re tested to when you get results? Like next week, what should people expect?
With the prior testing, it was taking several days because the test is slower. We believe with this test, because of its throughput, that the testing can be from start, remember it has to transport, to the laboratory that will run it, and then we’re hoping that all can be finished within 24 hours, which is very similar to other tests that you receive today. These are not point-of-care tests. We are working on point-of-care tests, but we have to realize point-of-care tests take six months or more to develop, so we’re not waiting for those. We’re still diagnosing this on nucleic acid, so it is an antibody. This is actually the antigen, the actual virus in your nose that we’re amplifying.
I think you have to remember though, we’re working very closely with states and to those you have a smaller form and more targeted form of government going in and doing it, like in New York where the relationship is very good. Like Gavin Newsom, where he made some very complimentary … that’s California. He made some really complementary comments the other day about how we’re working together. We worked on the ship together, but we worked on a lot of other things together having to do with this, and really, the relationship that we have, I can’t think of a bad relationship. We’re helping them, we’re funding them, in some cases, depending on what it is you’re talking about, and we’re all working together very closely. So we’ve done really, I think, a tremendous job of teamwork with the different states.
All right, one or two more, and if you have questions for these folks … Does anybody have a question for the folks up here? Who has a question up here? You have? Okay, go ahead. If you have a question, go ahead.
Thank you. I have one for you as well.
I thought. I knew you would.
I do have one for them because I haven’t heard this yet.
I was waiting for that. Go ahead.
Because I haven’t heard this yet.
Ask them first please.
Yes, I will. Okay, with regards to the CEOs, can you please tell us when you expect to see items like hand sanitizer, that have been going out of stock very quickly, back on the shelves? There have been a lot of reports about that, and for you, Mr. President, could you talk about a potential bailout for the cruise industry? You had suggested that could happen. Is that something you’re still looking at, and how much would that be?
Well, I didn’t suggest that it could happen, but I could tell you it’s an industry that was very badly impacted by what’s going on with the virus. It’s a great industry, it’s a very important industry, and we will be helping them and we will be helping the airline industry if we have to, assuming we have to. So far people haven’t been asking, but if they should be asking, we want to make sure our airlines are very strong, and then in one day all of a sudden wasn’t looking so good. Interestingly, I was talking to Doug, and the numbers they’re doing from the retailing standpoint I guess because of this, your business is like the opposite. All of you have been selling a lot of stuff. Do you want to answer the question as to the hand sanitizers?
Sure. Specifically the areas where we’re seeing pressure in the supply chain are surface cleaners, cleaning supplies, paper goods in particular. Hand sanitizer is going to be very difficult to have 100% in stock on for some time. We’re still replenishing it and shipping it, but as soon as it hits the stores it’s going. The same thing’s true for the categories I just mentioned, so all the retailers will be working hand-in-hand with the suppliers to bring that to the market as fast as we can.
What is your advice though for Americans who are seeking those items? What is your advice? They’re selling out online, they’re selling out in the stores.
I think this team has given you other examples of what people can do to fight back against this virus, and you should look at the entire list.
Dr. Fauci. Dr. Fauci.
Please.
Obviously it sounds very simplistic, but wash your hands as often as you possibly can. I know you’re not always in a position to be able to wash your hands, but wash them just as much as you can. If you don’t have the alcohol wipes, try and get them. If you can’t get them, just try as best as possible to do it. You got to do the best you can.
Just general preparedness. You want to wash your hands, you want to keep distance from people, and if you’re around someone sick, keep away from them. This is basic, basic public health. Now these guys are selling a lot of toilet paper. Tony, do you need to give some guidance that toilet paper is not an effective protection against getting the Coronavirus. They’re selling out, but the soap and water, hot water, soap, 20 seconds. That’s how you do it.
Okay, one more. Go ahead. Go ahead. No, over you. Behind you. Behind you.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have a great team, of course.
That’s true. Thank you.
My question, Mr. President, are you happy from the Chinese response? What correctly really told you what really happened those days? Second, Prime Minister Modi of India have closed borders until April 15th, if you have spoken with the prime minister of India, and if they have needed any help? Finally, sir, any method for the small businesses, because they are losing some business because of this. Thank you, sir.
On small businesses, the Small Business Administration is now stacked with money to help them, and we’re going to make the money readily available if they need it, small businesses. We had a great time in India. It was an incredible two days, and he’s a great friend of mine and he’s a friend of his people, because he was greeted incredibly warmly, as was I in that stadium. It was an incredible event, and I loved being with him, so just to say “hello” to him.
We talked about everything. We’ve talked about far more than just borders, and as far as President, he, likewise, he’s a friend of mine. I believe that we are dealing in good faith, that we just worked, as you know and as I just said. We just worked an incredible deal, big deal, one of the biggest deals ever made of any kind. Big, even by the standards of some of the people here, the deal with China, but I think that they want to get to the bottom of things also.
We’re working, our drug companies, our pharmaceutical companies, are working very closely with China and with India, as you know, and with all over the world, and they’re all over the world. These are magnificent companies that are very, very knowledgeable and we’re very lucky to have them, because I think you’re going to come up with, whether it’s therapeutic or whether it’s just help. Helping getting better, and then ultimately a vaccine, which takes a little bit longer because of the test periods and couple of other reasons. You’re going to have it very quickly because of the great knowledge. They’ll have it very quickly. They’ve made a tremendous amount of progress.
Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much.
My fellow Americans, tonight I want to speak with you about our nation’s unprecedented response to the coronavirus outbreak that started in China and is now spreading throughout the world. Today, the World Health Organization officially announced that this is a global pandemic. We have been in frequent contact with our allies, and we are marshaling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people. This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history. I am confident that by counting and continuing to take these tough measures, we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens, and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus. From the beginning of time, nations and people have faced unforeseen challenges including large scale and very dangerous health threats. This is the way it always was and always will be.
It only matters how you respond and we are responding with great speed and professionalism. Our team is the best anywhere in the world. At the very start of the outbreak, we instituted sweeping travel restrictions on China, and put in place the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years. We declared a public health emergency and issued the highest level of travel warning on other countries as the virus spread its horrible infection. And taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe. The European union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hotspots. As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seated by travelers from Europe. After consulting with our top government health professionals, I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and well-being of all Americans.
To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days. The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight. These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground. There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval. Anything coming from Europe to the United States is what we are discussing. These restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom. At the same time, we are monitoring the situation in China and South Korea, and as their situation improves, we will reevaluate the restrictions and warnings that are currently in place for a possible early opening.
Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all copayments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments and to prevent surprise medical billing. We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time. These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus.
Additionally, last week I signed into law an $8.3 billion funding bill to help CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support vaccines, treatments and distribution of medical supplies. Testing and testing capabilities are expanding rapidly day by day. We are moving very quickly. The vast majority of Americans, the risk is very, very low. Young and healthy people can expect to recover fully and quickly if they should get the virus. The highest risk is for elderly population with underlying health conditions. The elderly population must be very, very careful. In particular, we are strongly advising that nursing homes for the elderly suspend all medically unnecessary visits. In general, older Americans should also avoid non-essential travel in crowded areas. My administration is coordinating directly with communities with largest outbreaks, and we have issued guidance on school closures, social distancing, and reducing large gatherings.
Smart action today will prevent the spread of the virus tomorrow. Every community faces different risks, and it is critical for you to follow the guidelines of your local officials who are working closely with our federal health experts and they are the best. For all Americans, it is essential that everyone take extra precautions and practice good hygiene. Each of us has a role to play in defeating this virus. Wash your hands, clean often used surfaces, cover your face and mouth if you sneeze or cough, and most of all, if you are sick or not feeling well, stay home. To ensure that working Americans impacted by the virus can stay home without fear of financial hardship, I will soon be taken emergency action, which is unprecedented, to provide financial relief. This will be targeted for workers who are ill, quarantined or caring for others due to coronavirus. I will be asking Congress to take legislative action to extend this relief.
Because of the economic policies that we have put into place, over the last three years we have the greatest economy anywhere in the world by far. Our banks and financial institutions are fully capitalized and incredibly strong. Our unemployment is at a historic low. This vast economic prosperity gives us flexibility, reserves, and resources to handle any threat that comes our way. This is not a financial crisis. This is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation and as a world.
However, to provide extra support for American workers, families, and businesses, tonight I am announcing the following additional actions: I am instructing the Small Business Administration to exercise available authority to provide capital and liquidity to firms affected by the coronavirus. Effective immediately, the SBA will begin providing economic loans in effected states and territories. These low interest loans will help small businesses overcome temporary economic disruptions caused by the virus. To this end, I am asking Congress to increase funding for this program by an additional $50 billion. Using emergency authority, I will be instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments without interest or penalties for certain individuals and businesses negatively impacted. This action will provide more than $200 billion of additional liquidity to the economy.
Finally, I am calling on Congress to provide Americans with immediate payroll tax relief. Hopefully they will consider this very strongly. We are at a critical time in the fight against the virus. We made a life saving move with early action on China. Now we must take the same action with Europe. We will not delay. I will never hesitate to take any necessary steps to protect the lives, health and safety of the American people. I will always put the well-being of America first.
If we are vigilant and we can reduce the chance of infection, which we will, we will significantly impede the transmission of the virus. The virus will not have a chance against us. No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States. We have the best economy, the most advanced healthcare, and the most talented doctors, scientists, and researchers anywhere in the world. We are all in this together. We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship, and unify together as one nation and one family. As history has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity. Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine. Acting with compassion and love, we will heal the sick, care for those in need, help our fellow citizens, and emerge from this challenge stronger and more unified than ever before. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you.
Thank you, thank you. What a nice group, and thank you Marianne. I think you like Marianne a lot. I was listening. I said, “Who’s out there that they like so much?” It was Marianne. Please sit down. Please. Before I begin, I want to send my warm wishes to the great people of Tennessee in the wake of the horrible, very vicious tornado that killed at least 19 people and injured many more. We’re working with the leaders in Tennessee, including their great governor, Bill Lee, to make sure that everything is done properly. FEMA is already on the ground and I’ll be going there on Friday. Our hearts are full of sorrow for the lives that were lost. It’s a vicious thing, those tornadoes, I’ve seen many of them during a three year period, and I’ve gotten to see the results and they are vicious. If you’re in their path, bad things happen. Really bad things happen.
I went to Alabama nine months ago and I saw the devastation that that left in Alabama too, and everybody was so incredible. The people were so incredible, but so many people get killed if you’re in the path. And we’ll be going, as I said, to Tennessee on Friday. We send our love and our prayers of the nation to every family that was affected. We will get there and we will recover and we will rebuild and we will help them and condolences. Tough, tough situation. It’s such bad news when you see that.
I’m honored to be here with the National Association of Counties at your annual legislative conference. It’s a great group of people. I’ve dealt with you for a long time over the years, and every once in a while I’ll find one I don’t like, but generally speaking you’re fantastic. And when one of you are in the way, it’s very tough to get that job done. And when you’re helpful, it’s real easy and we get it done and we produce a lot of jobs and good results, and I just want to say you’re very important. People that are doing what I do before I got here, we realize how important you are. Incredible job really. I’ve met some of the most incredible people doing exactly what you do. Thank you very much.
So, in this room there are over 1,200 county leaders whose incredible devotion, talent and drive directly and profoundly improve the lives of millions of Americans each and every day. I want you to know that my administration will always be your friend and partner and ally and resource as you work to deliver an amazing future for your counties and for your communities and for the country itself. As I said in my State of the Union address, three years ago … I’ve had a number of State of the Unions already. Can you believe it? But this was three years ago. We launched the great American comeback, and we really did. We launched it with a vigor and with a certain splash that nobody’s seen in a long time. And what we’ve done in our country has really been incredible. Our country is so strong now. We’ve rebuilt our military, we’ve cut taxes, we’ve cut regulations. You know regulations.
You know the regulation business. I think you know the regulation business better than any group I can think of. Now sadly, about 5% of you are saying, “Oh gee, I wish they wouldn’t have cut,” but 95% of you are saying it was redundant and it was a problem and I talk about highways that would take to get approved. It would take 18, 19, 20 years. I can give you many examples too. Not even big highways, sometimes roadways, but we’ve cut regulations at a level that nobody has ever thought possible and we’ve done it with the extraordinary help of local officials, people like yourselves that worked with us and worked with the Department of Transportation and all of the other departments that we work with. We’ve got it down to where it would take sometimes 20, 21 years to get approvals for a highway. We think we have it down to two. I want to get it down to one, meaning that it could get rejected. We have safety concerns that we have to look at. We have environmental concerns, many concerns we have to look at.
But to go 20 years and then get a rejection. How about that? How many of those have, where you wait, let’s say 10 years, and then at the end of 10 years they vote and they reject you? Okay. There’s been a couple. I guarantee there’s some people in the room. I’ve been involved in a couple of them. That’s not fun. You devote a big chunk of your life to something and then you lose three to two. You go home. How did you do, darling? Not good.
A lot of power in this room. You don’t know the power you have. Yes you do. But we’ve hosted nearly 50 White House events welcoming over 3000 county leaders from all 50 states to forge powerful new bonds of cooperation. As we speak, my administration is working very closely with state and local leaders to confront the coronavirus. We’re really working hard on it. Vice President Mike Pence is leading the White House coronavirus task force. He’s doing a really fantastic job too. We have already met with state, county and health officials in 30 states and conducted regular briefings with governors to coordinate our response and contain the disease. It just shows you what can happen. Six weeks ago, eight weeks ago, you never heard of this. All of a sudden it’s got the world aflutter, but it’ll work out. But it’s just unseen. You have it all the time. Not to this extent, sometimes to a greater extent, relatively speaking, but things happen that you never would even think would happen and then you have to confront it.
You have to do a lot of good work and you take care of the situation. You people do that better than anybody that I can think of. America has the world’s most advanced public health system. We know that our county health officials play a frontline role in battling public health threats and we are working with Congress very closely to pass supplemental legislation that ensures state and county health departments get everything they need. I asked for two and a half billion. It looks like they’re going to give us eight and a half billion. I don’t think that’s ever happened to me before. So I think I should say, “I’ll take it,” right? Right? I asked for two and a half, they give me eight and a half. I say, “I’ll take it.” But no, everyone’s working together very well to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the disease. I ordered sweeping travel restrictions and did them very early, as you probably have heard, earlier than people wanted me to do them and it turned out to be a wise decision.
We increased travel advisory levels, established screening measures and imposed historic quarantines. We urge all of you to share information about basic health and safety practices with your communities back home. CDC has all of the information. It’s listed all over and it’s a good thing to refer to, but that’s why following my remarks today, you’ll hear from Dr. Robert Redfield, the Director of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and they’re doing a fantastic job. They are working round the clock. America has the world’s greatest professionals working and they are working very, very hard. We’re moving aggressively to accelerate the process of developing a vaccine.
I met yesterday with the biggest drug companies, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, and many of the other great companies. A lot of good things are happening and they’re happening very fast. I said, “Do me a favor, speed it up, speed it up,” and they will. They’re working really hard and quick. We’re moving at a maximum speed to develop the therapies, not only the vaccines but the therapies. Therapies is another word for cure where you have it, it helps get the people better faster and take down the severity of the illness. And they’ve done so much. If you look at what’s happened with AIDS and the tremendous job they’ve done there. We will be, as an example, AIDS free within nine years. Nobody would have thought that was possible. They are doing a fantastic job.
The revival of American strength over the last three years has put our country in the best possible position to deal with this challenge. Our economy is prospering like never before. We’ve relocated supply chains back to the United States. A lot of the chains now are back in the United States. And we’ve also, as you probably have noticed, for two years I’ve been complaining about the medicines are made outside of the United States. I want them to be back here. If there’s a reason why we can’t use a certain country for lots of reasons, I want it to be made here. And we’ve already started that process before this happened. But this sort of explains why we have to do it pretty well.
Jobs and growth have soared in the United States at a level that’s unprecedented, historic. Also we’ve had historic new investment in our country. No country on earth has had greater power to overcome adversity. What we’ve done in so many different ways, we’ve rebuilt our military, two and a half trillion dollars. It’s wonderful to have a good budget, but if we don’t have a strong military … You never want to be in a position where you’re trying to explain to people that well, at least we had a good budget, as people are running up the front lawn of the White House. No thank you. You look over, you say, “We did a hell of a job in that budget. Should’ve spent a little more money on the military I guess.” But when I took over, our military was totally depleted. It was an embarrassment and we’ve totally rebuilt our military, most of the equipment. Much of it’s already there. New planes and new missiles, rockets, do everything. We make the greatest military equipment in the world, all made in the USA. All made in the USA.
All made in the USA. Every bit of it is made here. Rebuilding our Navy. We’re rebuilding our Navy and we’re doing a job. And frankly, two and a half trillion dollars is a lot, but it’s not a lot when you think of the importance of the military. They say the most important thing that a president does is the court system and in particular Supreme Court judges. So I’ve named 218 new federal judges. Can you believe it? That’s a record. That’s a record. Only one person beat me percentage-wise. You know who that is, right? Does anybody know? Percentage-wise, there’s only one, and when you look 218, because President Obama was very nice, he left 142 to start off with. Usually you left none. I got 142. But you know who the one percentage wise was? George Washington. He had 100%. But was like 12 people. 12. At least I can say I named more him. A lot more. It was a little smaller country at the time, but he had 100%.
In our great national renewal, my administration has made engagement with local leaders a top priority because nobody understand the needs of local communities better than local officials, the people in this room. Nobody. And with your help, and we keep in touch with you, as you know, all the time. We feel very strongly about that. Our economy is right now the envy of the world. And by the way, yesterday, did you notice the market went up almost 1300 points? That’s the highest, biggest, that’s the biggest one day gain in points in the history of our country. Can you believe that one? That was a nice surprise. That took about half of the the hurt from the previous week out caused by something again that we didn’t think would happen. So that was tremendous. And today it’s up and the Federal Reserve cut rates today. Finally, finally, finally. Finally. Do it more. Do it a little bit more.
You want to be competitive with these other countries. Other countries have lower rates because their Feds, their currencies are cut to a level and their rate is cut. They play with their currency, they play with the value of their currencies. We don’t do that. We don’t do that. We have a different theory going and it really puts us at, and I don’t say necessarily to do it, but we have to be competitive with other countries. When we’re paying two points more than Germany or we’re paying more than other countries, we should be paying less than everybody else. We have the dollar, we have the strength, we have the greatest country on earth. We should be paying less. So the Fed rate is too high. It’s very simple. It’s too high. It puts us at a competitive disadvantage, especially when it comes to exporting our product to other countries. The other countries love that. I don’t like it at all.
So I’d like to see our Fed lead, instead of being led. We have created seven million more jobs since the election, and if you would have said seven million jobs, nobody would have believed that number. The optimistic projection by the previous administration was two million jobs. Said it would be two million by this time, and it turned out to be now over seven million jobs. So, that’s something really incredible. African American, Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment have reached the lowest level in history. You know that. Median household income has hit the highest level ever recorded. If you look back and you go to President Bush, it’s $450. If you go to President Obama, and that’s for eight years, remember. If you go to President Obama for eight years, $975. And if you go to President Donald John Trump, over a period of three years, it’s almost $10,000. That’s a big difference.
So it’s much more over a much shorter period. And if you think about it, everybody take a look at it, look at the result. Our consumer is so powerful, so strong. It’s really what’s leading our country right now, the strength of our consumer. Nobody has a consumer like we have. So we’ve done a job. For the first time in nearly three decades, every single metro area in the United States has seen their income rise. Every single area. The economy of rural America … I love rural America. All that red. Rural. I love rural America. That’s great. You know, we-
That’s great. We have all those city slickers. They’re in the back. They’re quiet. They’re in the back. We put them in the back corners. That’s okay. How are you doing back there? Well, they’re still waving. Oh I love those beautiful red areas, that middle of the map. There’s just a little blue here, and a little blue, everything else is bright red.
Well, what we did, for your farmers, or it’s been incredible that USMCA. We got out of that horrible NAFTA deal, and now we have the USMCA. It’s going to make a tremendous … like day and night. And then made the deal with China, $50 billion worth of purchases for the farmer. I don’t think the farmers are going to be able to do business. So, $50 billion, the highest ever was $16 billion. The biggest purchase China ever made in a year was $16 billion, so we made it $20 billion in the agreement. And then the day before the agreement was signed, I said, “How are we doing with the farmer?” Because they suffered, of course not too much, because I gave them whatever they got taken. Nobody else would do that. Paid for by China out of the tariffs, and we had a lot left over. That wasn’t so bad. That’s why the other presidents never did it, because they didn’t quite get it.
But I will say the farmer, so they have $20 billion in the agreement. I said, “Do me a favor, make it $50 billion.” They got 1.5 billion people, right? And they said, “No, no, no.” I said, “What does it matter to you? What does it matter? It doesn’t make any difference.” Anyway, they agreed to do it. So instead of $20 billion, highest ever was $16 billion in one year, two years ago. Instead of $20 billion, they made it $50 billion. And now my people look at me and say, “Sir, the American farmer will not be able to produce that much.” I said, “Trust me, they will produce that much.”
Remember I said, “Tell them to go buy more land, and get bigger tractors, right?” we buy more land, assuming they get approval from you people. You’ve got to approve them. but now the farmers, they was so incredible, the farmer. The way when the CNNs of the world would go and interview them, looking for somebody to speak negatively, because when we’re negotiating, China is very smart, and they pulled back all their orders. They didn’t order almost anything. And they’d see the farmer. The farmers were hurt. I mean, until we started helping them out with money from China. But frankly, which was a tremendous thing actually, but the farmers never said anything bad. Normally they’d say, “Oh, it’s terrible what he’s doing.” Well you have to make the deal. There’s some suffering going on. It’s an operation. It’s like an operation. And the farmer, the American farmer, I don’t know that I’ve seen almost anybody, and they tried to stick that microphone, “What do you think of the horrible thing where President Trump is in a trade war with China?” And they’d say, “Sir, it should have been done a long time ago. It’s painful, but this should’ve been 15 and 20 years ago.”
And then CNN would pull that mic away, “I don’t like this guy. Let’s find somebody else.” and they’d put it in front of somebody else. And then they’d interview women in the rural communities. They’d say, “Are you disappointed that you voted,” Democrats that voted for Trump, right? “Are you disappointed?” They had one about two weeks ago, right? You saw. It was a classic. I think they convinced CNN that they were going to say bad things about me, 10 just incredible women, and they convinced them. “And you are women that voted for President Trump last time. Who are you going to vote for this time?” 10, all of them, they go, “Trump.”
“What? What? What?” That was a crowd.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Now, now, now. This is not supposed to be a political rally. This is not a political rally. I don’t like talking politics. We’re talking about the economy, Rural America. I don’t like talking about politics. This is a pretty wild group you have here. But it’s a great group of people. It’s a great feeling. You can feel it. I mean, we have a great group of people, and I appreciate it. The economy of Rural America has grown 30 times faster under my administration than during the four years prior to my election. Think of it, 30 times. 30 times! That sounds like an exaggeration. If it is, you’ll read about it tomorrow on the Washington. They’ll give me a Pinocchio. Well, that’s what they have. They had to get it somewhere. One thing I know, it’s grown a hell of a lot faster. 30 times sounds like a lot, but they are. They’re doing great.
Together, we’re building the most prosperous economy, and the most inclusive society ever to exist in this country. Under our massive tax cuts, governors across the country have designated nearly 9,000 distressed community as opportunity zones, and neighborhoods are being revitalized every single day. You see that. The opportunities zones. It’s Senator Tim Scott from South Carolina has been so incredible. He came in with the idea of opportunities zones, and I don’t think there’s been anything like it. We have them all over the … thousands all over the country, and areas that haven’t seen investment in 40 years. People are putting tremendous amounts of money, investors. Sometimes you’d say, rich people are putting money in, they’re creating jobs, and they’re happy with it. Nobody has seen anything like it. It’s really a prospect. Maybe because the economy is so good, but things like that help make the economy good. So it’s been very unusual. Almost never does that stuff work. And then the government comes in with massive subsidies, and loses their shirt. This is something where people are investing in areas that they would have never ever in a million years invested in, and it’s become a tremendous success. The fake news doesn’t like talking about it, unfortunately, but one day they will, because I think you can’t help. It’s become one of the great successes.
We’re also promoting workforce development through our pledge to America’s workers. 430 companies have already committed to providing new jobs and training opportunities to over 15 million Americans. And I give my daughter, Ivanka, a lot of credit for that. She came in. She said, “Daddy.” It’s true. She had a great company in New York. She wanted to just come, and just help people get jobs. I said, “Would you like to do this?”
“No, I want to help people get jobs.” She started off with 500,000 jobs, and she just broke 15 million. She did the 500,000, if you know her, I’m not surprised. She did the 500,000 like the first week, but 500,000 jobs is a lot. So she’ll go to a Walmart, and many of the great companies, and Johnson &amp; Johnson, and they’ll hire a large amounts. I think it was Walmart that did a million people where they train them, and government is in no position to train them. You understand that. Government wouldn’t know where to begin. It would just be another program that they have that would be a disaster. So she’d go to these … no, no, you can’t. You just can’t do that.
The private companies … and they all said it’s very specific. They’re very specific needs. One of the problems we have is that we’re having tremendous amounts of companies moving back to the United States, and moving into your communities. And the problem they have is in many cases they can’t get help. And now what they’re doing is they’re taking people that didn’t have jobs and they’re training them, specifically training them. And Ivanka’s had that job, and it’s been incredible.
In the State of the Union address, I called on Congress to support my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every high school [crosstalk 00:23:55]. It’s true. And I love the term vocational schools, because to me it says it. I mean, when I went to school, I had people and one person in particular, he wasn’t very good as a student, but he could after hours take apart a motor or an engine of a car, and he could strip it blindfolded, put it back together in 15 minutes. It was the most incredible thing. I said, “This is your real ability.” He just had an ability that was extraordinary, not for sitting there writing out tests, but for doing things like that, which are frankly just as important and high paying jobs. They’re really high paying jobs. And I love the name vocational school.
When I was growing up, we used to use Edison Vocational School, where they train them for cars, and for brick laying, and for plumbing, and all the things that there’s tremendous talent involved, and it was incredible. You don’t see that now, they call them junior colleges. And as junior colleges, you don’t really know what that means. What is a junior college? What does it mean? So we’re getting back to the word vocational. I thought it was very important, and it’s something that they’re very proud of, and I would be very proud also. People have that tremendous ability, and we don’t allow them to use it. We want to help every American acquire cutting-edge skills that they need for the jobs today, and for tomorrow to put more money in American pockets.
We’ve launched the groundbreaking Regulatory Reduction campaign by cutting regulations, yeah, by cutting regulations on one of the most exciting things that happened. If you look at the other side, they want to get rid of all energy. Let’s put up windmills all over your communities, right? Let’s have windmills all over the place. And solar. I love solar, but it’s not powerful enough to power these massive factories and plants that we have being built all over. But by cutting regulations, on American energy, for example, we’re massively driving down energy prices.
You see that happening, unless it’s an area or a community within not allowing that to happen, in which case, New York is an example, we’re unable to build a pipeline through New York state, where they’d love the jobs of doing the pipeline. And because of that, New England has very, very high energy prices. We could cut the energy prices in New York and New England down by half, less than half if they would allow. And we’re fighting them very hard, and I think we’ll be successful. But if they’d allow a pipeline to go through we would cut the prices of energy down by half, and even more so than that. It’s a terrible thing. It’s a very unfair thing to the rest of the country. The American energy revolution is now saving the typical family of four, an average of $2,500 per year. And I will say this, we are now energy independent. How nice is that, energy independent? Energy independent, that’s why you don’t see all those ships going out to the straits, and coming back and they keep looking for our ships. “What happened to the USA ships? I don’t see them too much anymore.” But we’re energy independent and we’re the largest producer of energy by far in the world. It wasn’t that way not so long ago, so …
And we approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, you know that. And we approve the Dakota Access Pipeline. I came in, those two, I did them on my first week or less, and it was 48,000 jobs. But more importantly, it’s actually environmentally better. You’re taking it under the soil. Nobody even sees it. You’re under the soil, as opposed to trains, and the problems that can happen. So it’s been a tremendous thing. But with us today Rebecca Long, Commissioner of Lee County, New Mexico. How am I doing in New Mexico? I hear we’re going to win New Mexico. We’re going to win New Mexico. Rebecca, please come forward and say a little bit about what’s happening on the energy boom, and your state is right up at the forefront, and we’re very proud of New Mexico. Now, if I don’t win it, I won’t say that. I’ll take it. I’ll come back and I’ll say next year, “I was only kidding about New Mexico.” Please, hi, how are you?
It’s such an honor to be here with you, today.
It’s my honor, thank you very much.
And the remarks you were just saying fit exactly in with what I’m going to say.
Perfect, [inaudible 00:28:27].
So thank you from Lee County, New Mexico, where your energy agenda is helping us with quicker Right-Of-Way permits on BLM land, and drilling permits. We’re getting those faster. So that’s helping America be energy independent.
That’s great. Thank you very much.
So we appreciate that. Let me give you a little bit of history. In December, 2016, right before you came on, we had 17 active drilling rigs producing 7 million barrels of oil. In December of 2019, we had 53 active drilling rigs with 18.2 million barrels of oil.
Wow.
Woo, woo, woo. So right now, Lee County, New Mexico is the second largest oil and gas producer in the United States.
Wow.
And soon we will be first. And thank you so much for all you do for us.
That’s fantastic.
Energy independence is so important, and we appreciate that you know where we are and who we are.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, thank you.
[crosstalk 00:29:28]. Wow, good job. Now again, we’re not getting political, because I refuse to do that. But you know Rebecca, that if Bernie, or one of these characters get in, you can close up your energy. You do know that? They have little things like, we don’t want petroleum products. Well that’s a lot of people. That’s a lot. We’re also building your wall right along the border to stop people from coming into our country illegally, right? You know that.
Say hello to the people of New Mexico. I’ll be there soon. We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated so many of your communities. You know that. You know it probably better than anybody in the country how bad it was. We have successfully renegotiated new trade deals with South Korea and Japan, who were really ripping us. South Korea, remember Hillary Clinton, great Hillary Clinton, she said, “No, no, we want this deal. It will produce 250,000 jobs,” and she was right, for South Korea. It’s true. It got South Korea 250, so you can’t say she was wrong. She wasn’t misleading us. She said 250,000. It was a horrible deal, and we’ve totally renegotiated that with South Korea. Now it’s a good deal for the United States, and a fairer deal. That was a ridiculous deal.
In January we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe, and I signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law, USMCA. And we also took the strongest ever action to stand up to China’s trade abuses, which frankly, for years, explain that one, what was happening with China, $500 billion a year deficits, allowing us to reach a landmark agreement that will deliver vast benefits for our ranchers, growers, manufacturers, farmers. Working closely with local officials, we’ve taken bold action to curb the opioid epidemic, which is such a problem no matter where you come from. And for the first time in 31 years, we actually went down a little bit. We went down. Some communities are down 17%, 18%, 19%. One is down 21%, but still it is a massive, massive problem for our country. Drug overdose problems are just a terrible, terrible problem. And it’s a world problem, too. No matter where you go, it’s pretty tough stuff. And frankly, I should say, no matter where you go, unless they have really, really strong measures against the dealers.
Really, really strong measures against the dealers, in which case they have no problem. I wonder how that works. How does that work, Mary, when you go to a country where they have a very, very stringent, unbelievably stringent, like probably we can’t do in our country, they have no drug problem. You go into China, you say, “How’s your drug problem?” They don’t even know… President Xi doesn’t even know what you’re talking about. We have no drug problem. They have quick trials, right? Quick trials. And I won’t even tell you what the punishment is, but let me just say it’s very swift.
You go to Singapore, they don’t have a drug problem in Singapore. A lot of money, a lot of everything, perfectly set up for a drug problem, everything perfect, but they are very, very tough and I just don’t know whether or not this country is ready for that, whether or not it can do it, but the only countries that don’t have a drug problem are countries where the retribution is unbelievably tough.
When we work together, we can dramatically improve public safety. It is just especially vital that all state and local officials cooperate fully with all requests from our courageous ICE officers. I hope I don’t insult anybody, but the ICE officers are taking people out of your communities by the thousands, including MS-13 gang members. If you didn’t have them… and your local enforcement doesn’t want to do that. These are seriously tough, crazy people in many cases. And we’re getting them the hell out of our country and we’re bringing it back to where they came from and we’re keeping them there.
And Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, so many of these countries and in the past administration they couldn’t bring the back because they’d say, “No, no, you can’t bring them back. Get out. You can’t bring them back.” So they’d fly over. They wouldn’t let them land. They wouldn’t let buses go in with these people, would have to bring them back. They don’t do that with us. With us, they say, “Thank you very much. Thank you for bringing these wonderful citizens back.” MS-13 you can have them. And now we bring them back and they take them immediately.
And we just have set records for coming through the border. We’re setting records now on not coming through the border. We built a 128 miles of wall. We’ve already got 100 and we have some going up in New Mexico just now. Well we have 128 miles and you think that was easy getting that thing… I could do anything. I could rebuild the military for two and a half trillion, but if you’re going to spend 25 cents on a wall, it was like you couldn’t do it. They would shut down the country. We actually did shut down the country for a little while, frankly, but we ended up getting the money and the wall is under construction. We’re building a lot. We’re up to 128 miles and we’ll have close to 500 miles sometime pretty early next year.
And in the area where have the walls, as you people know, because you’re also people of great common sense, you’re brilliant, but you have great common sense. That’s why you’re doing what you’re doing. At least the good ones do. The bad ones probably don’t. There must be some bad ones in the room, right? But it’s a matter of common… so much of life and so much of government is common sense. But where we have a wall, the numbers just went down to almost zero. Now they go around and that’s why the wall gets longer and longer. But the numbers have been incredible.
The Democrats used to say, “We don’t want a wall. We’ll give you drones.” They wanted to give me drones. I said, “What good are drones? They’re going to be flying around in the air, watching thousands of people cross the border.” What good are drone? No, no, we’ll give you technology. They were saying, “Walls. Walls are old fashioned.” Yeah, two things will never change a wall and a wheel. Right? Come back in 1,000 years, you’re going to have a wheel. Come back in 1,000 years, you’re going to a wall. They’re probably the only two things that aren’t going to change in life. But it is true when you think of it as that. So we have 128. We’re building it rapidly and it’s exactly what Border Patrol wanted. They did tests on every form of what you can have and it’s an expensive wall, in terms of expensive, very expensive per square foot, but it’s the kind of wall we need. We might as well… if we’re going to do it, we might as well do it right.
They had a big story two weeks ago that the wall fell down, my wall fell down. You know how I’m saying how strong it is. I always liked to brag about it, because it really is. It’s deep set into the ground surrounded by heavy concrete and steel. It’s actually made of steel on the outside, concrete and rebar inside into there. It’s got everything, right. And one of the big newscasters, they said, “The wall fell down.” I said, “Oh, this is bad. I’m building a wall. It falls down. That’s terrible.”
So, I go, “What the hell happened with the wall?” Well, sir, they had a tremendous windstorm and we were just setting it in very wet concrete. We were holding it up as much as we could until the concrete dried and the wind came at 58 miles an hour, sir, and it blew the wall over. We put it back up and we held it with cranes. I said, “You mean you were putting it up and the concrete was soaking wet?” Yes sir. We just put it in the concrete and it fell down. Oh, they didn’t say that. They didn’t say that. They don’t say little things like that, do they? I don’t know how you put up with the fake news. Americans are safest when we support the heroes of federal, state and local law enforcement. My administration… they’re incredible people. They do an incredible job and I’ll tell you what, they’re very much appreciated in our country. You read so many things, but they are very much appreciated. And ICE has done an incredible of getting very bad, some very bad people out of your communities.
My administration is also reshaping our nation’s approach to mental illness. My budget calls for almost $5 billion to improve access to inpatient mental health care through Medicaid. And as you know, county jails were not meant to deal with the mental illness problem. They weren’t. They were. Thank you. Thank you. I didn’t know that that was going to hit such a high note really. I mean, that’s incredible. I didn’t know that that was going to be appreciated the way you get it’s meant to be, but you understand the situations. You understand, the people in this room understand all of the things we’re talking about better than any people I can imagine, even people in Washington. You’re on the ground. So when you make a statement like that, that’s very meaningful to me when you give it that kind of a response. I wouldn’t have thought it would’ve had that response. It’s also not compassionate to leave those with mental illness on the streets and you see that. So we must get Americans the care that they need. From day one, my administration has worked closely with you to overcome natural disasters, such as the tornado in Tennessee. Since I took office, 62% of counties have received major emergency or disaster declarations with the federal government committing over $124 billion to support your citizens in very trying times and we get you the money quickly. We check it. We do what we have to do, but I think everybody in this room would say that you get the money much quicker under our administration than in the past. It used to be unfair. It used to be very unfair, to a point where you really couldn’t even properly do the work. It would take you so long to get the money. You were afraid to do the work. We get it to you quickly.
We’re joined today by Kathryn Starkey of Pasco County, Florida. Good place. Kathryn please come up and share your story about your community and recovering from a very big disaster that I know very well. Thank you.
Thank you for the opportunity. In 2017, President Trump’s Office of Intergovernmental Affairs started an innovative outreach program inviting to DC commissioners from each date regardless of party affiliation. This opened a bridge for communication with federal. And then Hurricane Irma hit my state later that year and soon we had an issue I needed to bring to the attention of your administration, sir. Counties were getting into bidding wars over debris removal contracts, and they were creating unaffordable prices for other municipalities. Fortunately, I was able to call the IGA office and they immediately set up a conference with the FEMA officials. They quickly resolved the issue through an emergency rule change and this would not have happened without the incredible outreach from the White House early on. I’d like to thank you, sir, President Trump, the IGA office and the federal agencies who are being such incredible partners to local government.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for making America great again.
Thank you. Wow. Thank you, Kathryn. Thank you very much. Beautiful. And I have to say, Kathryn, that you had a two governors. You had Rick Scott previously, right? And he did a fantastic job. Now your Senator, and your current governor, Ron DeSantis, and they would come to my office, say, “President, could we see you just for a minute? Oh, good.” Separately, but very similar. They wanted money. I said, “Well, what do you want?” We don’t need much. We did a little bit more for the Panhandle as an example, and I said, “Oh good.” I love the Panhandle. They got everything they needed, that I can tell you. But they’d say, “We need another little bit of money.” How much you need? 500 million more. 500 million. That’s a lot. You’ve got it. But they’d come up… it goes to the Panhandle.
Look these people, having the right governor in a state is so important. The good ones, they bug me, bug me, bug me. You have great ones in this country. You have so many great ones that Governor Lee is a great one in Tennessee. You have so many Texas, Greg Abbott. But Ron DeSantis, the job he’s doing, the job that Rick did as governor, Rick Scott. It’s so important if you’d have the wrong governor, it’s not helpful. Yes, absolutely. But if you have the wrong governor, you understand that better than anybody. If you have the wrong governor, doesn’t work.
But they would come up and they’d want to get everything set and done and they need it fast because you have to rebuild your community and debris was the biggest thing. Kathryn, right? Debris. Debris was the biggest thing. They’d bid it out and they’d had bids that were so crazy. One would be very low and the others would be very high and they weren’t allowed through red tape to use the low one. And I worked at so that they could use the low one. And we did a lot of great things, but Florida has really has done, they have done a fantastic job. Thank you very much. That was beautiful.
Everyone here is devoted and really a devoted public servant. You love your neighbors, you love your country, you love this nation like nobody else. Every day we’re working with you to build a country where every town is booming, every community is prospering. And every child has the chance to reach the American dream. As long as I am president, the federal government is on your side 100%. Thank you. Thank you.
You will always have a very important seat at the table and you will always find an open door at the White House. Many of you have come to the White House and we’ve had a lot of good discussions. No matter what community you represent, we’re all united by our loyalty to the citizens we serve and the knowledge that America is the most exceptional nation anywhere in the history of the world. To every county leader… and it’s so brilliant to have you here because you really are the people that know it the best, and I really know that much more from my previous life. This life is different, to put it mildly. I thought it would be easier. It’s actually much tougher. But I know it from my previous life. I know the talent that you have, the insight that you have. It’s really incredible, and I want to thank you for your unbelievable service. Thank you for your selfless devotion and thank you for fighting for a glorious future of American greatness. God bless you all. God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
(singing)
Thank you. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Great gentleman. That’s first thing they said to me when I walked in, “But everybody knows who you are.” I know who you are. 11 years of this. That’s fantastic. What a tremendous story. Thank you very much. Congratulations because I’m going to give him an early congratulations, all right? That’s big stuff. That’s big stuff. So, thank you very much, Jon.
Two years I was honored to celebrate your story of faith and transformation as you stood with me in the Rose Garden of the White House. It was a great day, a beautiful day. Now, I’m thrilled to come to Las Vegas Police Department. Thank you very much for being what a group that is. That’s some job you guys do. Some job you do. Lot of friends, too, lot of friends, to take part in your organization’s HOPE for Prisoners graduation ceremony.
We are here to reaffirm that America is a nation that believes in redemption. That’s what it’s about, redemption. We believe in second chances and we want to bring returning citizens, great people, great people. In many cases, great people. And not in all cases. I’m not going to be too politically correct, fellows, right? Not in all cases. But in many cases, we want to rebuild their lives, they want to rebuild their lives. They want to help us and rebuild our country. And please, everybody, please sit down. It was a little bit late with that one, wasn’t it? Thank you. That feels better, doesn’t it, huh?
But to the 29 graduates who returning to your families, you have paid your debt to society and shown a commitment to change. You’ve overcome many challenges, broken free of addiction, learned new skills and replaced old habits with fresh resolve. And Jon told us just outside little while ago that it’s an incredible class. Incredible class of talent. That word talent is very important. And now you have a chance to begin a new chapter that you are proud to call your own. And I have little doubt you’re going to be very, very successful. Your future does not have to be defined by the mistakes of the past. Today, we declare that you are made by God for a great and noble purpose and you understand that. I mean, it’s a great and noble purpose on your valued members of our American family. And we are determined to help you succeed and we’re going to work with you and you’re going to work with Jon and everybody else in this really incredible place that you’ve all put together, Jon. And you’re going to be so successful. You’re going to say, “I’m going to be more successful than Trump.” I’m going to be more … and I’ll be happy if you do it. I’ll tell you what. I’ll be very happy about it. But as long as you work hard and follow the law and do your part, you contribute to your communities, your best days are just beginning. Best part of your life is beginning. I really believe that. And your greatest years are just ahead. And to all of the family members and loved ones who have been through so much of the graduates’ who joined us today, we know your journey has not been an easy one but your love and support make all of the difference. And we are tremendously grateful for the families, the loved ones. And I know they’re even more grateful because without them, you wouldn’t be here. You wouldn’t be here. So, I want to thank you.
And joining us for this ceremony are two leaders who have devoted so much to advancing medical cures to help people overcome the stranglehold of addiction. Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, and they’ve been great friends of mine for a long time. Stand up, Sheldon. What a family. What a family. And Miriam is a doctor. A great doctor. She doesn’t have to be a doctor. You can trust me. Her husband doesn’t need the money. But she devotes her life, it’s the most important thing to her, to addiction. And every time she learns something new, and there’s still plenty to learn, but she’ll call me and tell me what they’re learning about addiction and the job you do, Miriam, what you’ve done, Sheldon, just overall is incredible. Really good. Two great people. Just great people.
And they like a place called Israel very much. Would you say that’s correct?
Amen.
Maybe I have to use the word love a place called Israel, right? Your case.
Thank you as well to Las Vegas mayor, Carolyn Goodman, for being here. Carolyn, thank you very much. Great, great job. And also the tireless advocate because Carolyn has been very much involved with criminal justice reform along with Jared Kushner, who’s been very, very much involved. I don’t know. I think … I think, Jared, I’m starting … Where’s Jared? Thank you, Jared. Never wants any credit. He does a lot. He works hard. But that’s working out very well, isn’t it, Carolyn? And it’s working out well for everybody and tremendous support. And we had liberal support, we had conservative support and they came to me and they needed some help, and we got help from some very unexpected places. Votes, we needed votes. And we got some great people.
Republicans, in all cases in this case, but we got some great people to vote for criminal justice reform. So, in fact, very conservative republicans, so that was a good sign. Very bipartisan and it was a terrific thing, and we really, we did something that they been trying to do for a long time, and we got it done. We get a lot of things done. Get a lot of things done.
Now you see a lot of press back there, so before we go any further, I want to address today’s sentencing of a man, Roger Stone. Roger Stone, he’s become big part of the news over the last little while. And I’m following this very closely, and I want to see it play out to its fullest because Roger has a very good chance of exoneration in my opinion. I’ve known, and you people understand it probably better than anybody in the room, I’ve known Roger Stone and his wife, who’s really a terrific woman, for a long time. And Roger’s definitely a character. Everybody sort of knows Roger. Everybody knows him. And most people like him. Some people probably don’t. But I do, and I always have. He’s a smart guy. He’s a little different. But those are sometimes the most interesting. But he’s a good person. His family is fantastic. He’s got a fantastic family. And there’s always a reason for that, isn’t there?
Roger was never involved in the Trump campaign for president. He wasn’t involved. I think early on, long before I announced, he may have done a little consulting work or something, but he was not involved when I ran for president. And he’s a person who, again, he knows a lot of people having to do with politics. His whole life is politics. That’s what he is. And it’s my strong opinion that the forewoman of the jury, the woman who was in charge of the jury is totally tainted. When you take a look, how can you have a person like this? She was a anti-Trump activist. Can you imagine this? Now you wouldn’t know about a bad jury. Anybody here know about a bad … No?
These people know more about bad juries than everybody here including the sheriff and the mayor and everybody. They know about bad juries. We’re not going to say it too much, though. Let’s not say it in front of more cameras than this. But you’re my experts, okay? No, but this is a woman who was an anti-Trump person, totally. Now, I don’t know if this is a fact, but she had a horrible social media account. The things she said on the account were unbelievable. She didn’t reveal that when she was chosen. And she’s, I guess from what I hear, a very strong woman, a very dominant person, so she can get people to do whatever she wants. And she got on, then she became the foreperson, forewoman, on the jury.
And I assumed they asked her a question. ” Do you have any bias? Do you have any …” She didn’t say that. So, is that a defrauding of the court? You tell me. But does this undermine our fair system of justice? How can you have a person like this? Did she delete her social account? And when Roger was determined by this same jury to be guilty before the judge issued a sentence, and he was determined to be guilty, and she started going a little wild. She’s very happy. And she started saying things and people said, “That’s strange. That’s strange.” And then they started looking in … How can you have a jury pool tainted so badly? It’s not fair. It’s not fair.
And you know, it’s not happening to a lot of other people because you can look, I won’t name names, but everybody knows who I’m talking about. What’s happening over there? Nobody. Nobody. There are people that are, even in Roger Stone’s basic business of politics, that were going to be in big trouble, well-known people, the biggest people, big trouble. They were forced to leave their firm. One man was forced to leave his firm and he was going to … Bad things were going to happen to him the following day. Nothing happened. Nothing happened. He was the biggest. Nothing happened. But it happened to Roger Stone, and it happened to General Flynn, and it happened to … I won’t name names. It happened to a lot of people. And destroyed a lot of people’s lives. And I’m here to make a fair system.
Again, Roger is not somebody who worked on my campaign. I know Roger but a lot of people know Roger. Everybody sort of knows Roger. And what happened to him is unbelievable. They say he lied. But other people lie too. Just to mention, Comey lied. McCabe lied. Lisa Page lied. Her lover, Strzok, Peter Strzok, lied. You don’t know who these people are? Just trust me. They all lied. You had people that forged documents. You had people that wrote fake dossiers and brought them to the FBI and used people in the Justice Department to get them to the FBI. And these people know in the front row, you know better than anybody in this room what the hell I’m talking about probably. So, I’m only responding to you. I’m not even talking to the folks over here. But they get it better than anybody, too. Lot of bad things are happening. We’re cleaning it out. We’re cleaning the swamp. We’re draining the swamp. I just never knew how deep the swamp was. So, if this woman was tainted, I hope the judge will find that she was tainted. And if she isn’t tainted, that will be fine too. But I’m not going to do anything in terms of the great powers bestowed upon a president of the United States. I want the process to play out. I think that’s the best thing to do because I’d love to see Roger exonerated, and I’d love to see it happen because I personally think he was treated very unfairly. They talk about witness tampering. But the man that he was tampering didn’t seem to have much of a problem with it. In fact, they know each other for years.
And, it’s not like the tampering that I see on television when you watch a movie. That’s called tampering, with guns to people’s heads and lots of other things. So, we’re going to see what it is. Maybe there was tampering and maybe there wasn’t. But, I can tell you that it was tremendous lying, really lying and leaking classified documents, that you don’t know about. But they leaked classified documents. You know, there was a young sailor who took pictures of their old submarine and sent them to his mother and a friend and it destroyed his life. I let him out. They were considered classified. Now Russia and China, I guarantee you, have the pictures of the submarine for long time. The submarine was like 30 years old. They had them in the first year. They didn’t have to wait for the 30th year.
But this is a famous story. And they had these pictures, and they put him in jail. He sent them to his mother and to his friend. His friend was not interested in what you’re thinking, and there are many other cases where documents were leaked, even accidentally. It’s so … Classified documents are so important that even if they are leaked accidentally … Hell, Hillary Clinton leaked more classified documents than any human being, I believe, in the history of the United States of America, right? And she deleted 33,000 emails. And she said, “Oh …” And by the way, if you did it? Five years, maybe more, okay? But you’d never have access to classified. Very few people have access.
She deleted 33,000 emails. I kept waiting because you know, they can talk Benghazi, they can talk 100 different things. What people understand is when you get rid of this kind of evidence so the United States Congress said, they subpoenaed her. They wanted to see her emails. After getting the subpoena, she deleted 33,000 emails. And they said, “You remember this?” Yes, the emails were about her yoga classes, her exercising and her daughter’s wedding. 33,000 about her daughter’s wedding? That must have been the greatest wedding of all time. And nothing happened to her and yet they’ll put a young sailor in an old submarine with a picture, couple of pictures, they’ll put him into jail. And I pardoned him because it was unfair that she was able to do it at the highest level and his level wasn’t … what he did, it was confidential. Confidential’s a much lower class than classified.
So, I tell you this because it’s interesting. This is part of our nation. This is what’s going on now. So, I’m going to let this process play out. And, we want to have a great and fair court system and I hope you had a fair and wonderful court system, but perhaps you didn’t. Perhaps you didn’t. And if you didn’t, we want to straighten it out but we have to straighten it out also at the top level. So, we had a lot of dirty cops, FBI is phenomenal. I love the people in the FBI. But the people at the top were dirty cops. And if you would have read the report written about Comey, 78 pages of kill, with a reference of, “Go get him.” They really said it. “Go get him.” And then you read about McCabe, and you see what they said. So bad. And we’re just waiting. I’m not doing anything. I’m just sitting here, standing here, talking to you. We’re waiting.
So, I just want to let the fake news media know that … I just want to let them know, because there’s few people more dishonest than these people, I will tell you that. And you have some very good ones. Hell of a lot more dishonest than most of you in the audience were.
Hell of a lot more dishonest than most of you in the audience were. But I’m going to let the media know that I’m going to watch the process. I’m going to watch it very closely. And at some point I’ll make a determination. But Roger Stone and everybody has to be treated fairly. And this has not been a fair process. Okay? Thank you.
So when I ran for president, I pledged to fight for those who have been forgotten, neglected, overlooked, and ignored by politicians in our nation’s capitol, and you understand that very well. For decades, no one was more forgotten than citizens coming out of prison who were ready to go into a brand new, beautiful start, but couldn’t find a job. They couldn’t find people who believed in them.
And one of the great things that happened is I and my administration and a lot of very talented people that work with me, we created the strongest economy in the history of our country. We have the best unemployment numbers. We have the best unemployment numbers for African American, best in history. Asian American, best in history. Hispanic American, best in history. Our country is booming. We’d never done better. It’s the best economy we’ve ever had.
So when people come out, as an example yourselves, you’re going to get great jobs. I’ll tell you the end result, and we do studies on this. People with businesses are going to hire you. They want you more than you want them. This is the first time this has happened. Okay? This is the first time. They want you to do it and they wouldn’t have given you that second chance. We call it second chance, but they wouldn’t have given you that second, some cases a third chance. That’s okay. But they wouldn’t have given you that second chance. Now they’re doing it because they need people, because the economy is so good.
And I’ll tell you the end result. Employers are calling the numbers that we’re getting, the respect that you’re getting from people that are doing the hiring, they can’t even believe it. I had one gentleman, I talked to him, he had seven people came out of prison. He’s got seven people working for him. He said, “They’re among my best.” He said, “They are among my best people.” He said, “I cannot believe it.” And you know what? Some businesses don’t always work out. I’m not going to say everybody is perfect, because it’s not. Nobody’s… you take a group, there’s always going to be somebody who doesn’t work out. But he said, “I can’t believe it. They are…” he’s got seven now. They’ve been with him for quite a while. He said “They’re are among the best people I’ve ever employed.” He is so happy. It’s going to happen with you. It’s going to happen with them. What do you think? I think it’s going to happen with this group.
So once I came into office, leaders from all different backgrounds asked me to make changes to our criminal justice and the more I learned about the issue, big issue, the more I knew that criminal justice reform was really not about politics, because you have people that are for and against it on all different levels. Republican, Democrat, conservative, independent, liberal. Some love it, some don’t love it, but they’re starting to love it. We’re having tremendous success with it.
And it’s about doing the right thing, because Alice Johnson and I’ve really gotten to know her well and she’s an incredible person. And because of Alice, we’re taking in… we’ve just let out three other people that she knew. And I say to people, and you may have references and recommendations when you were wherever you may have been. Frankly, you know some people that were really good people who… Alice was in for 22 years. She had another 18 years to serve and for a crime, but not that kind of a crime. And I learned about Alice Johnson and when I learned it really is really something special. She’s an incredible woman. She came out of prison.
You’ve seen the whole thing. We actually did a commercial on it. I did the commercial for people to see what this is all about. She came out… you couldn’t hire an actor in Hollywood to have the emotion and the love and the tears and everything. She came out and she saw her family who had totally grown up without her, and some big strong young men, some wonderful women, just all family. And she was grabbing them and they were all hugging and kissing outside of this massive prison wall. And they were just screaming with joy. It was an incredible thing to see. You couldn’t do it. It had to be natural. It had to come from the heart. It had to come from the heart. So it was nice. And I said to Alice and I said to other people, and I’ll say to you, and I’ll say to you, you’re going to have some recommendations. You think I’m making a mistake with him? What do you think?
No.
Okay. You’re going to have some recommendations. I want your recommendations, because you have… we have thousands of people in prison that have stories like Alice Johnson, thousands and thousands of people. And I love doing it. I love doing it. And you can be poor, you can be middle-income, you can be rich. It’s injustice is injustice, but you have thousands of people that shouldn’t be there. And I love finding those people. As you find them as you really think… but you can’t let me down. They got to be right, because there are some people you don’t want to do this with. You do know that.
I said to Alice, “So Alice, let me ask you, you have a lot of people like yourself, right?” Yes. But you have bad people too, don’t you? Yes, we do. Some very bad people. I said, “Good, because I wouldn’t want somebody to say no, everybody’s good, because that’s not the case.” But she’s given us great recommendations and she’s a great woman.
To redress unfairness in the justice system, just over one year ago, I led the effort to pass the criminal justice reform, and others had tried and failed. They didn’t try too hard because they know it couldn’t be done. But we got it done. This law rolls back provisions of the really terrible 1994 Criminal Clinton Crime Law that disproportionately impacted the African American community. I mean they like Clinton, but they passed a law that was a disaster. You know that. But we did something about it. They were unable to do it all the way back. We did something about it.
And my recent budget provides over $400 million to expand vocational training, drug treatment, and critical reentry programs just like this one. Okay. You know that. He knows it. By enacting criminal justice reform, we’re sending a powerful message to prisoners who have reformed their lives. When you return to society, we are not going to leave you behind. We’re not leaving you behind. But now we don’t have the excuse of a bad economy. They used to have the excuse, well, we can’t do it, the economy’s no good. The unemployment rates were very high. We’re down to 3.5%. We’re probably going lower and wages are going up, first time in 21 years. They’re really going up and going up. It’s a beautiful thing. If you’re in my world, it’s a beautiful thing to watch. It’s like a picture. Everyone in this room is here to make sure that you have the support that you need to succeed, thrive, and to never ever look back. You’re not going to look back. We’re not going to look back.
And we’re joined today by many great pastors and faith leaders, some of whom I know pretty well, who trust the power of prayer and the mercy of God to transform their lives. And I want to thank you all for being here. Thank you. Great, great faith leaders. Thank you. Please stand up. Please stand up. Great. Thank you. Thank you, father. Great job. Actually been to a couple of their churches. Thank you very much.
Also with us or our employers of many different industries who are here to recruit you. Don’t ask for too much. Just take it nice and easy. Don’t forget they want to make a good deal, but you do too. But they want to recruit you for great jobs and they’re here. Who are the people that are looking? Who are the people, the employers please? Yeah, stand up please. That’s great. That’s good. That’s great. Great. You’re going to be happy. You’re going to be very happy.
Including the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce, who really has done a fantastic job over the years. I’ve known how hard they work and what a great job they do. Station’s Casinos, Martin and Harris Construction, civil work, general contractor, Silver State Transportation, Keolis Transit and Workforce Connections. And I want to thank you all and we have a lot of others outside that are coming in too, and you’re going to have a lot of… you’re going to have a lot of fun. It’s nice to be loved, right? It’s nice to be wanted. You’re wanted. You’re wanted. Finally… you are. You’re wanted. Right John?
Finally, we’re proudly, really proud to be joined by more than 80 men and women, these people are so incredible, of law enforcement. The job they do. Sheriff, the job… please stand up. You don’t know how much people respect you. You don’t hear it. You don’t hear it. People respect you like you wouldn’t believe. So we just want to thank you all. The job you do is incredible, law enforcement. We honor your selfless service and bravery.
By the way, fire department also. I just left an area of the country where two firemen were just killed and a terrible. Up in certain portion of beautiful place in California where a building collapsed. Two people killed, two firemen killed, and we honor them. This took place yesterday, but they’re fantastic. But I want to thank law enforcement, because the job you do is incredible and the respect that people have for you, you’ll never know how strong it is. It’s strong and I think it’s stronger now than ever before. And now you have an administration that loves you, backs you. We give you the equipment that you need. We gave billions of dollars of equipment. We had surplus equipment, military equipment, incredible stuff sitting in hundreds of warehouses all over the United States. And for some reason other people didn’t want to give it out. But I gave it out and I assume you got some of it right? You got some of it. I know the man, he probably got most of it. Right? That’s good. It keeps you safe.
As you know, Hope for Prisoners has pioneered a mentorship program with law enforcement, which has given strength and support to former inmates like Lois Hockersmith and she joins us today. Lois. Where’s Lois? For many years, Lois struggled with addiction. In May of 2012, she found herself pregnant and in jail. After she served her time, Lois participated in Hope for Prisoners program. She graduated in 2013 and since then Lois has stayed totally sober. She’s earned back custody of her precious, beautiful son and she is one of the best case managers here at Hope for Prisoners. Is that right? That’s good, that’s great. Thank you. Wow. Come on up here, Lois. Come on up here. Through it all, Lois has been encouraged by her mentor who is the same officer who arrested her nearly eight years ago. Lieutenant Steve Riback, who also joins us today. Hey Steve, come on up. Is Steve here? Steve is here. Steve, come up.
Thank you.
Pleasure to meet you sir.
Hey, whoa, he’s good looking, huh? Come here. Thank you. Thank you. Well, we’re with you 100%. It’s good. Please. You like to say something?
Yes. So first of all, I want to thank this officer. He saved our lives that night that he arrested me and my son. He arrested me. I was pregnant with him and I gave birth to him that night. And not all our heroes wear capes. Some wear badges. Had he not been doing his job that night, I wouldn’t be here. John Ponder, listen, we’ve been through a lot of things together. 2012, that’s when I went through the program and my life changed that day. I am standing in front of the president. A little bit nervous. I just want you to know that I’m standing amongst heroes, but you guys, if it wasn’t for you guys to come back in and for me able to pour back into you, this is how I keep it, by giving it back to you guys.
Right.
Thank you. And thank you Mr. President.
[inaudible 00:32:12] Thank you. Take care of mom, right? He’s so beautiful. Would you like to say something? Please. He feels very comfortable.
I had a well prepared speech for this. The credit 100% goes to Lois and not to be completely candid, I was doing nothing, no different than I had done for years and years that night. I definitely believe it was divine that we came across each other, but the credit goes to her. The credit goes to John. The credit goes to you guys as hopefuls and I just wish you a tremendous amount of success in the rest of your life. It’s only forward at this point and you have an incredible team, an incredible community, and I’m so honored to be a part of it. But again, the credit goes to these people right here. Thank you.
You did a good job. That was a good job. Wow. He did okay fellows, right? He did. He did a great job. Thank you both. Lois and Steve, you remind us really that, all of us, that anything’s possible, and Lois is among the roughly 100 Hope for Prisoners alumni here today, all of whom are doing incredibly well. Please stand. Please stand, all of the alumni. Wow, that’s great. That’s great. That’s great. Great. Congratulations. Thank you very much.
But they’re really a testament to the bright future that awaits you all. It’s a great time in our country in so many ways. Our military is strong. Our country is just strong. We’re stronger in, I would say, just about every way than we ever have been before. Militarily. You take a look at what we’re doing with the stock market. We’ve had 144 out of three years. I’ve been here just a little more than three years and in a little more than three years, John, we’ve had 144 stock market records. Now that’s good for everybody. It’s good for your 401ks and it’s good for jobs and it’s good for… those are the ones that I think about first, jobs, 401ks, that and people are making a lot of money and people are getting tremendous… you’ll be investing some of your money in this now. You’d be doing fantastically well and you’re going to have 401ks or something, the equivalent and you’re going to do fantastically well.
And as I say, sometimes in speeches, the best is yet to come. We have tremendous potential. We have done… we’ve just made some incredible trade deals that will soon start kicking in. It’s going to make it a different country economically, as good as it does, it’s going to be much better. We had horrible, horrible deals, or no deals at all, and now we have phenomenal deals. We made a massive deal with China than we did the USMCA, that’s Mexico, Canada. We did a $40 billion a year deal with Japan and we did a deal with South Korea, and we have other deals too, and I’m going to India next week and we’re talking about… they have 1.5 billion people and Prime Minister Modi is number two on Facebook. Number two, think of that. You know who number one is? Trump. Can you believe that? Number one, I just found out. The head of Facebook, Mr. Zuckerberg came in three weeks ago. He said, “Congratulations.” I said, “On what?” He said, “You’re number one on Facebook.” I said, “That’s cool.” Number one on Twitter too. But that’s because… true.
But that’s because… And if I wasn’t, I could never say it because it would be breaking news that Trump told the fib. Now number one and I congratulated a Prime Minister Modi. I said, “But you know, you have 1.5 billion people. I have 350 million. You have an advantage.” But we’re going to India and we may make a tremendous deal there. Maybe we’ll slow it down, we’ll do it after the election. I think that could happen too. So we’ll see what happens but we’re only making deals if they’re good deals because we’re putting America first, whether people like it or not. We’re putting America first.
So to help you find housing, jobs and support, I established, as you know very well, the Council on Crime Prevention and Re-entry. They’ve done a fantastic job and here with us today, our new executive director, Tony Lowden.
Tony, would you just come up and say a few words please? Tony Lowden. Thank you, Tony.
He looks good.
To God be the glory. Listen, is what re-entry looks like when our law enforcement, our returning citizens, our faith community, business and our community along with their children, can come together in a holistic approach and bring us together under this president has showed America what re-entry looks like.
They say what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas, but I want to tell you that today the entire world have been put on notice that here, John, under this president and our administration, this will no longer be a secret. This will be the norm for America. God bless you.
Thank you, Tony. Wow. Thank you Tony. Wow, that’s great. Respected guy.
For too long, citizens with a record were not even considered for jobs. You know that even if they were qualified, rehabilitated, totally and ready to go to work, they wanted to go to work but all of that is changing and we began a nationwide campaign to encourage businesses to expand Second Chance Hiring; call it Second Chance Hiring. When we say hire American, we mean all Americans, all Americans.
And our entire nation wins when citizens with a record have a chance to succeed, such a tremendous, it’s what’s happened over the last three years is incredible. People came out, they didn’t have a chance and now they’re not only having a chance, you’re going to see in a little while when these guys try and make a deal. I want a little bit more. Give me a little bit more.
Together, we’re rebuilding the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society, John, ever to exist. We are becoming a very inclusive society, much more so than in the past and a lot of people haven’t figured that out yet but I think they will. I think people are going to figure it out pretty soon. We want every citizen to join America’s unparalleled success in every community to take part in America’s extraordinary rise.
Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs. The unemployment rate has reached the lowest rate in over 51 years. Think of that, 51 years; half a century. And by the way, the 7 million jobs, they thought it might be 2 million if we’re lucky. You go back three years, they were saying 2 million. We did 7 million and it’s pretty amazing.
African-American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded but I think one of the things we’re most proud of in this incredible economy, we’ll call it Trump Economy, call it, we’ll call it the ponder economy, we’ll call it something, but whatever we call it, this economy has been great and the thing that might be the best of all is what we’ve done with criminal justice reform. I really think so.
Our jobs market is so strong that businesses are recruiting the former prisoners off the sidelines in, by the way, record numbers. Record numbers, never happened anywhere, even close to these numbers. We know that having a job gives you the best chance to work hard to earn the paycheck, care for your families, chase your dreams and succeed, through our pledge to America’s workers, spearheaded by a very famous young woman. Did you ever hear of Ivanka?
She said, “Daddy, I want to help with jobs.” I said, “Well, I’ll put you here, there.” “No, no. I want to help with jobs. I want to get people jobs. They have to be trained. They have to be…’ So she had a goal of 500,000 jobs. That’s a lot; half a million jobs. She just broke Jared. I guess, is Jared around? She just broke… She just broke Jared Kushner. She just broke the father of criminal justice reform. He really is. I mean, he works so hard and Ivanka just broke 15 million jobs. Mayor, that’s good, right? And this is where they train the people in the companies. The government can’t do this. Walmart took a million people. Think of it. These big companies take and they train them. It’s very complicated stuff with computerization and all the things you have to learn. That’s not for government.
15 million people taken by many of the biggest companies, but also midsize companies, even some smaller, but she broke 15 million people about two weeks ago and her goal was 500,000 people over a fairly long period of time; 15 million. But if you know Ivanka, you’re not at all surprised. Believe me, I wasn’t surprised. I was sort of saying, “So what else is new.”
To everyone returning citizen here today, I know that there are some in our society who want to tell you what you can’t do. They’re going to tell you what you can’t do. It’s one of the reasons I wanted to be here. I wanted to say what I had to say to John too, because I sort of had that in my mind for a long time. Actually, the first time I met him but they want to tell you what you can’t do. They want to tell you why you can’t succeed. No way you can succeed.
You don’t want to listen to them because you’re proving different. They want to say why you can’t make it in this country. Why you can’t make it in any country. They think you’re not going to make it period, but do not believe those voices for one second because I’m here today because I believe in what you can do.
You’re going to be incredible. You’re going to be incredible. You’re going to see it and it’s going to go quickly. Each of you is a citizen of the greatest country on earth. There is more opportunity, more equality and more potential in America today than in any society in the history of the world. It’s true.
This is the country where anyone can make a comeback. We made a comeback with our country. We call it the Great American Comeback. This is the Great American Comeback and you’re doing the same thing. This is a nation where anyone can rise and this is the time when anyone can reach for the American dream, that beautiful American dream. That’s what you’re doing and whenever you have any doubt, whenever the road gets tough and it will, you’ll have those days. I’ve had those days. I mean, I didn’t do anything wrong and they impeached to me a few weeks ago, right? They impeached. I said, “What happened? What did I do?” [Aye Yai Yai 00:08:36] You think that was fun? Mary, you think that’s great to be impeached? The good news, my numbers went through the roof. I mean, you explain this to me. Explain this to me.
But you’ll have those days, right? You’re going to have those days but you’re Americans and you’re great Americans and Americans meet challenges. You defy expectations. You never give up. You never lose faith in the redeeming power of Almighty God and from this day forward, I’m here. I’m the president. I don’t have to do this. I could be someplace else but I want it to be here and I had plenty of choices.
One thing, as president, the American tells you, we have plenty of choices, right? We are a lot of choices. I wanted to be here but I ask each of you to seize your unlimited future. If you do, you will make the most of your incredible new found freedom. You’re pioneers in a way because you’re at a point in the country when it’s just all come together. You will unlock your unique talents and skill and aspirations. You’ll join a great project of national renewal and together we will make our country stronger than ever before.
Thank you very much for being here. God bless you and God bless America.
Thank you. Thank you.
I’m going to ask the graduates to line up as we issue the certificates.
Gary White, [Maceo Bells 00:47:41], Demarcus Webb, Richard [Fella 00:11: 57], Amanda [Stankowitz 00:48:06], [Gerard 00:48:15] Robinson, Nathan Rab, Troy Price, Frank Provato, Kira Pozzo, Robert Petrosino, Herman [Pacheco 00:13:07], [Sidney 00:49:14] Morris, Casey Mix, Heath McCurdy, [Payhon Macask 00:49:39], [Keandre 00:50:07] Houston, [Delirious 00:50:13] Hernandez, [Lay 00:50:20] Harris, Michael Hargraves, Aaron Harriston, [Osi 00:50:47] Gwen, Saul Guevara, Jared Gibson, Glenn Fennel, Sarah Campbell, Willie [Bro 00:00:51:31], Rory Allen.
Ladies and gentlemen, as I present to you the February special graduating Class of 2020 and Mr. President, we just want to thank you several so very, very much. It is an honor for us to have you in this building. Thank you so very much.
(singing).
Well, Chip, thank you very much. And my fellow race fans, there is no greater thrill than to join you at the World Center of Racing for the 62nd Daytona 500. So exciting. The Daytona 500 is a legendary display of roaring engines, soaring spirits of the American skills, speed, and power, that we’ve been hearing about for so many years. The tens of thousands of patriots here today, have come for the fast cars in the world-class Motorsports, but NASCAR fans never forget, that no matter who wins the race, what matters most is God, family and country.
Joining us today are Gold Star Families whose loved ones made the supreme sacrifice to defend our freedom and our flag, to Edgar and Jennifer Bill, George Lutz, and Gold Star Families everywhere, throughout our land, your fallen warriors will live in our hearts forever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
We’re also grateful to be joined by staff Sergeant David Bellavia, who I was privileged last year to award the Congressional Medal of Honor, a very brave man. Thank you, David. Thank you, David. Thank you.
This afternoon, we congratulate all of the new enlistees in the United States Armed Forces, and there are plenty and they love our country. A few moments ago, these young men and women took a solemn oath to put their lives on the line for our country. To each of them and to every service member and veteran here today, as Commander in Chief of the greatest fighting-force on the planet, a force that just spent 2.5 trillion dollars on rebuilding our military, I want to thank you for your service.
Now we approach the moment that you’ve all been waiting for. Soon the car will take to the track for the start, tires will screech, rubber will burn, fans will scream, and the great American race will begin. For 500 heart-pounding miles, these fierce competitors will chase the checkered flag, fight for the Harley J. Earl trophy, and make their play for pure American glory. And that’s what it is, pure American glory.
As we wait for the green flag, we give thanks to this beloved country, for the heroes who keep us safe, and for the God who made us free. To all of the drivers, technicians, and pit crews here today, good luck and may the best team win. God bless you. God bless our military. God bless our veterans and God bless America. Have a great race. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. It’s a great honor to have you at the White House, a very special place. Beautiful and so meaningful in so many ways and our country has never done better. You’re all doing really well. Every state is doing well. I can say most every state in the room today is setting records and we’d like to think that the federal government has been helping you a lot, but it is wonderful being with you and we had a great evening last night, and the talent of those musicians, they could be anywhere in the world. Many of them could work in the great opera houses, but they loved the military.
When you heard the violins and the talent, the great talent, I don’t know if anybody has an ear for music. Believe it or not, a long time ago, I was told I have a great ear for music by somebody. I took a test. They said, “He has a wonderful aptitude for music.” I said, “I do?” But would you listen to that? It’s really incredible, the talent, and they’re great people. They want to be in the military. They don’t want to be anywhere else. So it’s really, really something.
As I said in my State of the Union last week, we’re in the midst of a great American comeback with the help of many of the people in this room, and you’ve done really a fantastic job. I think I can say just about everybody. I’ll say just about just in case some day somebody’s going to run or do something that I won’t like and I can have a little bit of an out when I say just about. I said, “No, he was included in the just about.” But we’re creating the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society ever to exist, actually.
Since my election, America’s gained seven million new jobs. We added 225,000 jobs in January alone, crushing expectations. The unemployment rate reached the lowest level in 50 years, and a statistic that’s incredible to me is the average unemployment that we’ve had during this three-year period is the lowest of the history of our country compared to any other administration. The lowest of the history of our country. The unemployment rate for African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-Americans have reached the lowest level ever recorded.
Low income workers have seen a 16% pay increase since my election. Something that’s so great to see. When I campaigned, they hadn’t had rate increases, pay increases, for 20 years, 21 years. They were working three jobs and two jobs and making less money than they’d been made 20 years ago. Median household income, as you all know very well, is the highest ever recorded by far. Since 2016, 28 states have reached or matched their lowest unemployment rate on record. So we have 28 and I think soon we’re going to have just about everybody.
And at the end of last year, a record 39 states had unemployment below 4%. Again, another record. Just as I promised during my campaign, we’re fighting every day to expand opportunity for African-American communities all across our country. African-American youth, we have such great news on African-American youth. Unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded. It’s a great statistic. African-American poverty rates have plummeted to their lowest rate ever in history and wages for African-American workers have increased $2,400 a year. That’s also a record.
At the center of our economic agenda, or opportunity zones, I hope you’re embracing them. I think many of you are. My administration has worked with the governors in this room to create nearly 9,000 opportunity zones in our most vulnerable communities. Jobs and money are pouring into these areas that have never seen investment. I mean, they haven’t seen them in decades and decades and decades, and hundreds of millions of dollars are pouring into certain communities, individual communities, hundreds of millions of dollars. And it’s never been anything like it. Opportunity zones. Tim Scott did a great job on that. Senator Tim Scott.
I urge all governors to create a state-level version of our White House opportunity and revitalization council to coordinate the efforts of state government to provide maximum support for the opportunities and say, “We’re there to help you. If you have a problem, call me, literally call me and we’ll work it out.” But the opportunity zones, and that’s Democrat or Republican, by the way, opportunities have been fantastic. We must not stop until we have delivered equal and abundant opportunity for every community in our land, and that’s what’s happening. To give former prisoners a second chance.
This has worked better than any program, ever. I was proud to sign the landmark criminal justice reform into law, and since that time, 10 states have passed legislation following our lead and there were numerous states, I know Texas was there, governor with criminal justice reform. Amazing. And Kentucky and few others that were thought of as being very strict states, and yet they had criminal justice reform. We looked at a lot of what Texas did and some of the other states, what worked so well. Alice Johnson is an example. She was in for 22 years and she had another 20 years to serve on something that everything’s bad, but to be in jail for 40 and 50 years for what Alice did on a telephone was crazy.
Thanks to our roaring economy, former inmates are now finding jobs and the employers are so happy now. The economy is really helping, but it’s the first time ever we’re prisoners coming out of jail are finding jobs, loving it, and the employers, the feedback we’re getting from so many people, so many employers are, these are among the best people they have and they were in a way forced by the economy, the good economy, because it’s hard to get people. Down to 3.5, and actually, it went to 3.6 because we’re opening up the valve, they’re hiring more and more people.
There was a positive, 225,000 as I said, but the prisoners are now working and they’re doing a phenomenal job, for the most part. Our booming prosperity is being fueled by our historic regulatory reduction campaign and my first month in office, I imposed a two-for-one rule requiring for every one new regulation, two old ones must be eliminated. Well, that turned out to be … We went to four, we went to six, we went to eight. We had a period where we were at 22:1, 22:1, and we’re eliminating on average $3,100 in regulation cost per family a year. Nobody’s ever even heard of such a thing, and we’re getting housing bill, too.
We have rules and regulations, made it impossible. I hope California gets their act together because the cost of regulations is almost the cost of a house and they need housing and they can’t build it. They don’t know what they’re doing. The governor’s initiative or regulatory innovation is designed to continue our unprecedented progress through straight estate level deregulation. Governor Doug Ducey has achieved three for one on cuts … Where’s Doug? Good job, Doug. Well, he only won by about 17%, so, you know, he should be doing good. In fact, at 17%, you should be at 4:1, I think, right? That’s a big win, big one. That was a great win.
And Governor Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma has reached two for one and going to three for one. Where’s Kevin? Hi, Kevin. Good job. Great. We’re also working together … And many of you in the room have done much better than one-for-one, much better. Some of you are up to four. We’re also working together to reform occupational licensing. Just this year at least 12 governors have taken action to reduce burdensome occupational licensing requirements. That means licensing where either it’s unnecessary, or where you actually can do it very quickly.
There are some licensing requirements that takes years to get approved and it could take a matter of days, could take a matter of days. Governors understand the need to get infrastructure projects quickly approved to speed up permitting and reduced traffic congestion. Last month, we issued a proposed new rule to reduce permitting and the permitting time for new infrastructure by more than 70%. Highways that were taking 12 years to get approved, 14, 15, 17, 21 years. We’re trying to get it down to one year.
That means you may get rejected if you have an environmental problem or safety problem. In many cases, these highways became much more unsafe and they took a long time because they try and get away from certain problems, including nesting, but they try and get away and instead of having a straight run, they’d create curves in the highway, which obviously, make it much more dangerous. And they had problems with some of those highways and they’re much more expensive to build.
Not only the time, the design, but the time. I mean, by the time they get an approved. So, we have highways that would take 21 years. We have roads that took 10 years, 11 years, 12 years to get approved. And Elaine Chao has been fantastic. Elaine, thank you very much. The job you’re doing with transportation, we appreciate it very much. And Jeff, you were over there for a long while. I will tell you, so I have to give you at least partial credit. Right now, you’re at a different location, but you really did. You did a great job on that.
So we have it down to two years now, but I think we’re going to get it down to one and very good chance you’ll be rejected if it doesn’t meet environmental standards and tests. And we are rescuing students from failing government schools by introducing the Education, Freedom, Scholarships and Opportunity Act, which will replicate the great success of tax credit scholarships available in 18 states. We believe very strongly, or at least many of the people in this room, not all of them, but believe very strongly in school choice. We’re also working closely with the States to improve public safety.
This includes the incredible work being done by our nation’s heroic ICE officers. We’ve moved thousands of MS-13 out of the country back to where they came from, whether it’s Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico. And as you know, we reached agreements with those countries so that we can do that. And the past administration, they wouldn’t accept them. They come from one of the countries, tough countries, and we would send them back and they wouldn’t take them. Not me. They take them now. Now they say, “Thank you so much for sending them back. We were looking for this killer. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.”
But they all take them now. They take them very quickly before they used to say, “Don’t ever even think about landing that airplane. We don’t want those people.” So they take them back rapidly. Some day, they’ll tell the real story as to why, but that’s the way it has to be. We have thousands and thousands of killers and gang members that we’re bringing back to countries that now accept them. They were not taking them back. Last year alone, ICE officers arrested 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2,000 murders.
Now, some of them we keep here when they … It’s very egregious. We don’t necessarily trust other people to take care of justice, so we keep them here. But we don’t like having people in our prisons for 50 years, 60 years, and we have to pay for it. And so, for the most part, we bring them back to their countries and give them a very bad recommendation. State and local cooperation is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with-
It is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with many of the states and governments, cities. It’s essential that all of our states and cities honor ICE detainer requests to ensure that safe transfer of criminal aliens into federal custody takes place. Jurisdictions that adopt sanctuary policies and instead release these criminals, put all of Americans in harm’s way. A very, very serious problem. I mean we’re all here for the same thing. I know we have different policies, different feelings, different everything, but sanctuary cities are causing us a tremendous problem in this country. We have stone cold killers that they don’t want to hand over to us and then they escape into communities and they cause in some cases tremendous havoc.
Another vital element of federal and state cooperation is the relentless fight against opioids and the drug epidemic. We’ve had great progress. We’re down 1819 and 20% in some of the communities. First Lady’s been very much involved in that. Kellyanne has been very much involved in that. A lot of the people in this room, almost everybody in this room has been involved in it. And I want to thank you for that. We’re making progress. Very tough, all over the world. This is a problem all over the world. This is big problem here, but it’s a big problem almost everywhere.
For the first time in three decades, we’ve achieved a decline in drug overdose deaths, including as an example, Ohio. Mike is around here someplace. Mike. Mike, Mike, 23% in Ohio. 19% in Pennsylvania. 10% in Wisconsin, and we’re averaging probably about 16, 17%, so it’s been… it’s not enough, but we’re making a lot of progress and if we had more help in Congress, we could get it even lower.
My administration is truly grateful for the leadership, cooperation, partnership, and friendship of the governors in this room. No matter our party, we must work together and really do the job and I think that’s what’s happening. Our country is now receiving thousands and thousands of companies that are coming into the United States. Some had left and some had never been here before, but they all want to be where the action is. We lost 60,000 plants and factories over the year, 60,000. It’s hard to even conceive and we’ve got many of them back and many are coming back and they’re moving to a lot of your states. I know a lot of them are coming into Texas and Florida and a lot of different locations. South Carolina, North Carolina, Pennsylvania. It’s incredible what’s happening. Ohio is a big beneficiary.
Michigan is a tremendous beneficiary with the car companies, tremendous. Somebody was saying they’re so happy in Michigan. And I meet with a Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, “Shinzō you have to get more car companies here. We have a deficit with you. You have to get them in.” And they are. They’re sending a lot of companies. We hadn’t built a plant in years and years, in decades frankly. And now we have car plants being built all over the United States and we have expansions, a lot of expansions of existing plants. So it’s been really an incredible thing.
We’re doing incredible work and we’re the number one country in the world right now in terms of the economy. When I was running and long before I was running, I’d always heard that China, have great respect for President Xi and great respect for China frankly, but that China was going to be the number one economy in the world during 2019. Actually it was 2018, 2019, you all heard it, that we were going to go to number two. And I will tell you we had our battle and we took in hundreds of billions of dollars in tariffs and other things and you saw the… it was just announced, the trade deficit was the lowest it’s been in years with China. Just happened two days ago. They just announced. But we are now so far ahead of China in terms of the size of our economy that if somebody is smart that’s at this position for times into the future, hopefully after five years, I won’t joke by saying 9, 13, 15 it drives them crazy. For the governors it drives them… even when I joke, it drives them crazy. So I won’t say that.
But if somebody smart is in this position, it’ll never happen, which I know over Texas, it’ll never happen. So we right now have… we’re so far ahead of them. They’re not catching us for a long time. If the wrong person stands here or sits in the White House, that beautiful chair in the White House, in the Oval Office, sure they’re going to catch you. They have 1.5 billion people. We have 350 million people, but we have a very special place and a very special country and nobody’s going to catch us if we have great leadership. And you have been great leaders for your states and we appreciate very much that you’re at the White House. Thank you very much.
So what we’re going to do is I thought maybe we could take a few questions if you want. We could leave the press there. The press would love that, I’m sure. Or we could have them leave and we could talk in a different fashion. You won’t have to show boat. So would anybody preference. We’ll leave them here for a little while and then we’ll go a different route perhaps. Any questions, please? Please.
Mr. President, what do you feel like your infrastructure, you got a budget coming out, I think, today. Where are you going to be on infrastructure?
We’re doing a big infrastructure potential deal. We need, obviously, we need help from… we need the votes of Democrats. They’ve been so focused on something else and wasting a lot of people’s time. Although my poll numbers have been driven way the hell up, so that’s one way to do it I guess. But they have been so focused on the impeachment hoax that they haven’t had time to do anything else, but we’re ready to go with a big infrastructure bill, if they’re ready to approve it.
We’re also ready to lower drug prices very substantially. We did last year was the first time in 51 years that drug prices, prescription drug prices went down first time in 51 years. But to get them really down, we have to do exactly what we’re doing, where we have… we need the votes of the Democrats and they just didn’t have the time to do anything. So maybe they will now have the time, but we’re all ready to go on infrastructure, on reducing drug prices. Very substantial. We can reduce drug prices unbelievably easily and substantially, but we have to get Democrat votes. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Governor. Please.
Mr. President, you’ve had a lot of success with trade with [inaudible 00:18:39] in Japan. What’s next on your agenda for trade?
Europe has been treating us very badly. European Union was really formed so they could treat us badly, so they’ve done their job. That was one of the primary reasons, but they treat us badly there and they treat us badly frankly on NATO. But NATO I’ve gotten, as you know, $130 billion more they will pay because NATO was going down like a rocket ship. Our past leaders would go over and make a speech and leave. I went over, made a speech and said, “You got to pay more,” because the United States was paying everything. Essentially they were paying close to 100% and I let them know you have no choice and they are paying more. They paid 130 billion.
I think my biggest fan of the whole world is Secretary General Stoltenberg, head of NATO. He said he can’t believe it, because for 20 years it went down. It’s like a roller coaster there. No, no… none of this just down. They paid less and less and less and it got more expensive and more expensive with time. But I raised $130 billion my first meeting and I raised 400 billion my second meeting. So now it’s in good shape. But we were taken advantage of by a lot of countries, a lot of allies frankly. Sometimes allies do a better job on you than the enemy, because the enemies you watch out for, right?
So Pete, I think that the next thing could be Europe where we talk to them very seriously and they have to do it, because there’s been, over the last 10 12 years, there’s been a tremendous deficit with Europe. They have barriers that are incredible. I didn’t want to do them while we were doing China, Japan, South Korea. I didn’t want to do the whole world at one time. Does that make sense? People have learned that doesn’t work out too well, even on trade.
So we’re going to be starting that. They know that. They know that. They’re ready for it. We made a good deal with Japan. We’re going to do a bigger, much more comprehensive deal, but we’re taking in 40 billion from Japan, which they didn’t expect. Nobody expected. We’ve done great on the trade. It’s going to have a tremendous impact.
Now the virus that we’re talking about having to do… a lot of people think that goes away in April with the heat, as the heat comes in. Typically, that will go away at April. We’re in great shape though. We have 12 cases, 11 cases and many of them are in good shape now. So, but a very good question. Yes, please, Colorado.
Yeah. You mentioned the deporting the criminal aliens. What about also… what are your ideas for fixing it for the… oh, for the dreamers and the folks who are here that are hardworking and it’s really tough out there and they work on our farms and the kids who grew up here and how do we do that, and at the same time you’re also kind of enforcing the other side for those who violate our laws?
Well, we almost had a deal on that with the Democrats as you know. It was done. And then we lost a decision and the Democrats said, “Trump, who’s that? Trump, who’s that?” But we were very close to having a deal on the dreamers with the House and with the Senate, would have been very good deal for everybody. And so we’re looking at that.
But now we’re before the Supreme Court. I think we’re going to win, because if we don’t win, that gives the President of the United States unbelievable powers. President Obama signed that bill, it was an executive order. And when he signed that, he said essentially he said, “I don’t have the right to do this, but I’m going to do it anyway.” And he was upheld by a judge and anyway, it’ll be before the Supreme Court pretty soon and at some point I think we’ll probably make a deal on that. I do feel that way. Okay, good question. Question. Yes please. Gary. How’s Mitt Romney?
Hasn’t talked.
You keep them. We don’t want him. Go ahead.
States are used to-
Doing a great job in Utah by the way. Go ahead Gary.
States are used to balancing a budget, so I think by and large we don’t spend more than we take in. And I know you’ve unveiled your budget today and I know this is a concern for you is the growing debt. I know we’ve had nonpartisan economists talk to us as governor saying, “This is going to come back to bite us in the future if we don’t do something about it.”
Yeah, I agree.
What are we doing? How can we get to a more balanced budget? Certainly reduced the debt as opposed to continue to grow the debt.
We’re putting out a plan today that over a period of… not that long a period of time, brings our budget and our deficit down to what it should be, which is close to zero. And I think people are going to be very impressed by it. We’re not touching Medicare. We want to keep Medicare. We’re not touching social security. We’re making our country stronger again. We’re not decreasing Medicaid, but we’re doing a lot of things that are very good, including waste and fraud, tremendous waste and tremendous fraud. So what we’re doing that, in terms of certain programs. And we’re taking good care of our military, we’re increasing spending on our nuclear program, because we have no choice, because of what China is doing, what Russia is doing in particular. And so we have a very big number in for that. Now, at the same time, Russia and China both want to negotiate with us to stop this craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars nuclear weapon.
… This craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars on nuclear weapons, but the only way until we have that agreement, the only thing I can do is create by far the strongest nuclear force center in the world. Which as you know, over the last three years, we’ve very much upgraded our nuclear, but we’re buying new, we have the superfast missiles, tremendous number of the superfast. We call them superfast, where they’re four, five, six and even seven times faster than an ordinary missile. We need that because again, Russia has some, I won’t tell you how they got it. They got it supposedly from plans from the Obama Administration when we weren’t doing it. And that’s too bad. That’s not good. But that’s how it happened. And China, as you know, is doing it.
We have a tremendous $740 billion for military. But again, it’s also jobs in the United States. So it’s everything’s made in the United States proudly. And we have the best in the world. We have the best equipment in the world, the best missiles, planes, rockets. Everybody wants our equipment. We have to be very selective obviously, but we’re going to have a very good budget with a very powerful military budget because we have no choice about that. Ron, do you have something about, for instance, your plan of buying and cutting prescription drugs? You want to tell them what we’re doing?
Well, so we had a panel about your administration’s approval under an old 2003 law prior administrations did not utilize to allow safe and affordable drugs to be imported from Canada. So that’s going through the regulatory process.
We, in Florida, are working our own parallel track. As soon as your rules are done and in place we’re looking to buy and you know, we can save a lot of money just for things like our prison system because the drugs are a lot cheaper. So we think there’ll be good savings here. But I think it opens up a larger conversation, which I know you want to have about why are we funding the drugs for everyone in the world. Americans love relief and I know you’ve fought hard for that, but thanks for approving the Florida program.
You can go, and Colorado is doing that, also, you can go to certain countries and the exact same pill made in the exact same plant, factory wherever it may be from one of the big companies, will sell for 50%, 60%, 70% less than the United States is paying because it’s broken. It’s a broken system. And so one of the things I’ve authorized is that certain states have requested probably after this, everybody in this room will go back, but, but if we buy from Canada, you’ll save 50% at this moment.
Now that may go up or everything may come down. One thing is going to happen or another, either the drug companies are going to raise it and not make it possible to buy. They’re going to raise it in Canada, meaning so you won’t be able to do it. Or everyone’s going to go down because they have a middleman in the middle of that are making a fortune. Nobody knows who these people are, but they’re getting rich because we had a broken system and it’s about time it gets fixed.
So a lot of shakeup is going to take place, but if we had Democrats helping us, we could solve this problem in one day, but they don’t want to vote. Again, they don’t have any time to vote. They don’t have any time to do anything other than what they do. So they seem to be freed up a lot now. They’re freed up a lot actually I hear. How about a couple of more and then we’ll let the press go and relax and take it easy. Please, Governor.
Your Administration has done a great job with regard to addressing the opioid crisis.
Thank you.
AN aspect about that is the growing problem of fentanyl. Especially fentanyl coming across the Southern border. And it’s my understanding there’s some information about a lot of that coming from China.
Yes.
What I’m curious about is what the status is with regard to the reduction of fentanyl coming from China and our ability to corral that and to reduce that.
So as you know, it’s gone down. I met with President Xi on the trade deal. And I said, “You have to stop fentanyl coming into our country. You have to do me a favor and stop it. You have to get it stopped. It has to end because it’s a favor for our country and we’re losing thousands and thousands of people to fentanyl.” I mean, the size of a pinhead can kill a lot of people. It’s unbelievably bad and they send it direct and they sent it through Mexico and through the border and we would catch a lot of it, but even if a little bit got through, it’s a very deadly drug. And they have cut it way back and they’ve also criminalized… It wasn’t a criminal, they considered a corporate kind of a thing. It was a drug of a different nature and now they put it into their criminal statutes and criminal in China for drugs, by the way, means that’s serious. They’re getting a maximum penalty. And you know what the maximum penalty is in China for that and it goes very quickly.
It’s interesting, where you have Singapore, they have very little drug problem. We have China, they have very little drug problem. States with a very powerful death penalty on drug dealers don’t have a drug problem. I don’t know that our country is ready for that, but if you look throughout the world, the countries with a powerful death penalty, death penalty with a fair but quick trial, they have very little if any drug problem that includes China. But they’ve put fentanyl now into there, he’s working on that and it’s gone down a lot as you know. They put it into their penalty system and people will be getting the death penalty in China now for fentanyl. It was a big thing. It’s not part of the trade agreement, but it is part of the trade agreement. And they have acted on it.
Now, of course they’re working on something else and I think they’re doing a good job on that. On the virus. Had a long talk with President Xi for the people in this room two nights ago and he feels very confident. He feels very confident. And he feels that, again as I mentioned by April or during the month of April, the heat generally speaking kills this kind of virus. So that would be a good thing. But we’re in great shape in our country. We have 11 and the 11 are getting better. Okay, so great question. I think that fentanyl is a huge problem. It’s almost at this moment to 100% made in China and they are starting to enforce it on our behalf. We have a good relationship with China now. Probably the best we’ve ever had. So I think what we’ll do, any other questions from the governors? Yes please.
Mr. President, I want to thank you for giving the States more flexibility and healthcare, particularly. Last week your Health and Human Services announced the Medicaid block grant waiver authority for the states. Arkansas will be pursuing that. And I wanted to thank you for that and also ask you, in terms of your State of the Union address, you talked about healthcare. Is there anything that we can expect this year in Congress with an election year, is there anything that we can get done that you’re going to be a priority in Congress this year?
So we did a big thing on healthcare. We got rid of the individual mandate on Obamacare, which basically made Obamacare not Obamacare anymore. It was the most unpopular thing in Obamacare and basically you paid a lot of money for the privilege of not paying to have bad healthcare and nobody wanted that. And we got rid it, big, big move and I had a choice. I can make so it really isn’t Obamacare anymore but, we do as you know we left preexisting conditions and everything. We left it because preexisting we’ll always have, and I think I can speak for Democrats too, but we are all going to have preexisting conditions. We are always going to make sure that that’s taken care of, the preexisting condition situation.
I think I can speak, I know I can speak for Republicans. I think I can speak for Democrats. It’s a part of our society right down. Nobody’s going to change it. If a law is overturned, that’s okay because the new law is going to have it in the new law would replace the old law that was overturned it would have preexisting conditions. So I think that’s important to say. But one thing that we will be doing is, at least from a Republican standpoint, you have 180 million people out there that have great health insurance. They love it, private health insurance, and we’re going to save it.
Other people are thinking about terminating it, which is brutal for unions and others. So I don’t know how they’re going to get around that, but we’re going to be saving that. But when I took over, I had a choice. So we got rid of the most unpopular thing in Obamacare, almost got rid of Obamacare but essentially we did. But now I said, “Do we run it really well or do we run it really poorly? Do we make everybody unhappy and blame the Democrats or do we make people relatively happy with a bad law?” It’s a bad law, it’s bad policy, but do we make people relatively happy. And I chose, I felt I had an obligation to do the latter. So it’s been working out pretty well and it goes along and we’ve done block grants, we’ve done a lot of different things with different states and it’s tailor made for different states.
We are doing things for states. Some people want block grants, some people want something else. And we’re working with individual states and I think governors are really happy and really surprised that we’re doing that. I could have just a cold lined it and just said we’re not doing anything and everybody would be happy. Everybody would be complaining. But I think the best thing for our country to do is the way we’re doing it until we get a replacement for Obamacare, a full replacement that’s going to be great. And I would say this, if we change the House, if we get the House, the Republicans get the House back, we will have that.
Otherwise we’ll just have to negotiate with the Democrats. And I think at some point they’ll come around and start negotiating these things because they really are good. So media, thank you very much we appreciate it and we’ll have a little more discussion. Thank you very much.
Well, thank you very much. I am working very hard for you, I will tell you. And sometimes you don’t make it easy, and I certainly don’t make it easy on you. I will continue that tradition if I might this morning. And Arthur, I don’t know if I agree with you. But I don’t if Arthur’s going to like what I’m going to say. But I loved listening to you, it was really great. Thank you very much. And thank you, Congressman, for the great job you’ve been doing and the relationship and the help. You’re a warrior. Thank you very much. And Kevin, you’re a warrior, thank you. The job you’ve done is incredible. It wasn’t supposed to be that way. A lot of extra work, unnecessary work.
It’s wonderful to be with the thousands of religious believers for the 68th Annual National Prayer Breakfast. I have been here from the first one, where I had the privilege of being asked. I’ve been with you for a long time before that. We’ve made tremendous progress, tremendous progress. You know what we’ve done. I don’t think anybody’s done more than all of us together during these last three years, and it’s been my honor.
But this morning we come together as one nation, blessed to live in freedom and grateful to worship in peace. As everybody knows, my family, our great country and your President, have been put through a terrible ordeal by some very dishonest and corrupt people. They have done everything possible to destroy us. And by so doing, very badly hurt our nation. They know what they are doing is wrong, but they put themselves far ahead of our great country.
Weeks ago and again, yesterday, courageous Republican politicians and leaders had the wisdom, fortitude and strength to do what everyone knows was right. I don’t like people who use their faith as justification for doing what they know is wrong. Nor do I like people who say I pray for you, when they know that that’s not so.
So many people have been hurt, and we can’t let that go on. I’ll be discussing that a little bit later at the White House. We’re joined today by two people whose faith inspires us all. Our amazing, wonderful friend, Vice President Mike Pence and his wonderful wife, Karen.
Thank you.
Thank you to all of our great political leaders out there. So many that I’ve been working with so hard over the last three years, and we’ve accomplished so much. And to members of my Cabinet in attendance, Secretary Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper, David Bernhardt, Gene Scalia, Alex Azar, Ben Carson, Dan Brouillette, Betsy DeVos, Robert Wilkie, and Administrator, Jovita Carranza.
Joining us for this cherished tradition are a lot of friends in the audience. Many really have become friends. They are political leaders. They’ve become great friends. That’s all I get to meet anymore. That and the enemies and the allies, and we have them all. We have allies, we have enemies. Sometimes the allies are enemies, but we just don’t know it. But we’re changing all that. But thank you all, and thank you all for being here. I also want to welcome foreign dignitaries from more than 140 countries, that’s something. That’s something.
Everyone here today is united by your shared conviction. We know that our nation is stronger, our future is brighter, and our joy is greater when we turn to God and ask him to shed his grace on our lives. On Tuesday, I addressed Congress on the State of the Union and the great American comeback. That’s what it is.
Our country has never done better than it is doing right now. Our economy is the strongest it has ever been. For those of you that are interested in stocks, it looks like the stock market will be way up again today. According to the latest Gallup poll that just came out a little while ago, a few minutes ago, American satisfaction is at the highest level ever recorded. Can you imagine? And that’s from Gallup, no friend of mine. 90% of Americans say they are satisfied with their personal lives. How about that, isn’t that something? It just came out today. They must have known I was going to be here.
In everything we do, we are creating a culture that protects freedom and that includes religious freedom. As I said on Tuesday in the House chamber, in America, we don’t punish prayer. We don’t tear down crosses. We don’t band symbols of faith. We don’t muzzle preachers. We don’t muzzle pastors. In America, we celebrate faith. We cherish religion. We lift our voices in prayer, and we raise our sights to the glory of God.
So much of the greatness we have achieved, the mysteries we’ve unlocked and the wonders we’ve built, the challenges we’ve met, and the incredible heights that we’ve reached has come from the faith of our families and the prayers of our people. Before America declared independence, patriots in all 13 colonies came together in days of fasting and prayer. In the bitter cold of Valley Forge, Washington and his men had no food, no supplies, and very little chance of victory. Reminded me a little bit of 2016, we had very little chance of victory, except for the people in this room and some others believed we were going to win. I believed we were going to win. But what they did was have an unwavering belief that God was with them. I believed that too.
God is with the people in this room. Before a single skyscraper rose up in New York City, thousands of poor American families donated all they could to build the magnificent St. Patrick’s Cathedral. When Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon, he said, “Houston, I would like to request a few moments of silence.” Then he read from the Bible. At every stage, our nation’s long march for civil rights was inspired, sustained and uplifted by faith, prayer and devotion of religious believers. To protect faith communities, I have taken historic action to defend religious liberty, including the constitutional right to pray in public schools.
We can also talk about the Johnson Amendment. We can talk about Mexico City policy. We’ve done a lot. But I also recently took executive action to stop taxpayer dollars from going to colleges and universities that spread the poison of antisemitism and bad things about Christianity. We are upholding the sanctity of life, sanctity of life. And we are doing that like nobody has ever done it before from this position. You better get out and vote on November 3rd, because you have a lot of people out there that aren’t liking what we’re doing. And we’re pursuing medical breakthroughs to save premature babies, because every child is a sacred gift from God.
Together, we are building the world’s most prosperous and inclusive society. We are lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. We are bringing hope to forgotten communities, and more Americans are working today. 160 million, a little bit short, just a little bit. 160 million, we’ve never been even close than ever before. Think of it. More Americans are working today, almost 160 million than ever before. Our unemployment numbers are the best in the history of our country. A more specific number and numbers that you hear me say, if you listen. African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American… The best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. Women, best in 71 years. Sorry, we’ll have you there soon. Soon it will be assured. I have to apologize to the women, it’s only 71 years. But the best unemployment numbers, we have.
We’re doing things that nobody thought possible. We’re setting records that nobody thought achievable. And to give former prisoners a second chance at life, which so many people in this room have worked on for so long. We passed criminal justice reform into law, and I signed it nine months ago. And it’s proving more and more that America is indeed a nation that believes in redemption. What’s happened with prisoners is a miracle. Prisoners would come out, nobody would give them a job. And oftentimes, most of the time, almost all of the time, they’d go back into prison. They’d get caught doing something bad. They had no money, they had no hope, they had no job. Now they’re coming out into a booming economy, and employers are hiring them. And to a certain extent, maybe because they’re having a hard time getting people. The first time in our country’s history actually, we’re running out of people.
We have plants moving in by the thousands. We have car companies coming from Japan and from Germany, from lots of other places, and we need people. Employers are hiring prisoners and they would have never done it except for what we’ve done with criminal justice reform, but even before that because the economy has become so powerful. These prisoners have done an incredible job. The employers are saying, “Why didn’t I do this 20 years ago?” So it’s an incredible thing what’s happening to people that are given a second chance and sometimes a third chance, in all fairness. It’s something that everybody in this room should be very proud about, because you’ve always felt that way long before it was fashionable. So I want to thank you for that.
As we revive our economy, we are also renewing our national spirit. Today, we proudly proclaim that faith is alive and well and thriving in America, and we’re going to keep it that way. Nobody will have it changed. It won’t happen. As long as I’m here, it will never ever happen. Something which wasn’t done nearly enough, I could almost say wasn’t done at all. We are standing up for persecuted Christians and religious minorities all around the world like nobody has ever done.
Last year at the United Nations, I was honored to be the first President to host a meeting of religious freedom. It was based all on religious freedom. That was the first meeting of its kind ever held at the United Nations. There, I called upon all nations to combat the terrible injustice of religious persecution, and people listened. Countries that we give billions of dollars to, they listened because they had to listen. It’s amazing how that works, isn’t it? And nobody ever played that game before. Weeks ago, a 21-year-old woman who goes by the name of Mary, was seized and imprisoned in Iran because she converted to Christianity and shared the gospel with others. In Venezuela, the dictator, Maduro, has arrested church leaders. At the State of the Union, I was honored to host the true and legitimate president of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó. Good man. I told him that all Americans stand with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom.
Yesterday, our administration launched the International Religious Freedom Alliance, the first ever alliance devoted to promoting religious liberty. It was something, really something. More than 25 countries have already joined our campaign. I want to thank Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, along with Ambassador Sam Brownback, who are both here this morning, for leading this historic initiative. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. All of us here today reaffirm these timeless truths. Faith keeps us free. Prayer makes us strong, and God alone is the author of life and the giver of grace.
With us this morning is a pastor who embodies the miracle of faith and the power of prayer, Reverend Gerald Toussaint, from Louisiana. Reverend Toussaint is an army veteran, a truck driver, and a pastor. He leads the same church that his father led, Mount Pleasant Baptist Church, which has been a pillar of the community for more than 140 years. Last year, Mount Pleasant was one of three African-American churches in Louisiana that was destroyed in fires set by a wicked, hate-filled arsonist. Yet in the wake of such shocking evil, America witnessed the unshakable unity, devotion, and spirit of Reverend Toussaint and his entire highly spirited, beautiful congregation. Families quickly came together in prayer. Soon, people from all across Louisiana came to help any way they could. Americans in all 50 states and 20 different countries heard about it, and they donated more than $2 million to help rebuild Mount Pleasant and the other two churches that were burnt. Where is he?
On Easter Sunday, just days after he lost his church, Reverend Toussaint preached about what it all meant. What does it mean? The Easter season he said, is a fitting metaphor for recent events. It was dark the day that Jesus was crucified, it was dark at night when they burned our church. What has happened since is like a resurrection. Old things are gone, but it’s going to be a brand new start and it’s going to be better than everybody, Reverend. Better than ever, fantastic. Today, just 10 months later, the ground is cleared. Careful plans have been made, and they’re beautiful plans. Construction is about to begin on the new and very, very magnificent Mount Pleasant Church. Congratulations.
You know, the Reverend says that, “We’re rebuilding because that’s what Jesus does. He rebuilds.” He lives and he breathes, that’s what he does. He wants it to be rebuilt. It was torn apart, but it’s being rebuilt again, and I’ll bet you it will indeed be bigger, better and nicer than before. What do you think, Reverend, yes? It’s going to have your mark on it. It did have, and now it have… even great. And your father is looking down on you right now and he’s very, very proud of the job you have done. Thank you very much. Very much inspire us, Reverend. Thank you.
Well, I want to just thank everybody. This has been very special. Tell your congregation and all of your people that we have 350 million people in our country. They’re proud Americans and they respect what we’re doing, even those that you don’t think so much like us, respect us, want to be with us. They’re respecting our fight, and we are in a fight. Religion in this country and religion all over the world, certain religions in particular, are under siege. We won’t let that happen. We are going to protect our religions. We are going to protect Christianity. We are going to protect our great ministers and pastors and rabbis, and all of the people that we so cherish and that we so respect.
America is eternally in the debt of our nation’s African-American churches all throughout this country. That’s why it’s so fitting and so… It’s one of the reasons we chose this particular church in Louisiana. For generations, they’ve bravely fought for justice and lifted up the conscience of our nation, and we are grateful beyond any measure. But I can say that going beyond that, we’re grateful to the people in this room for the love they show to religion. Not one religion, but many religions. They are brave, they are brilliant, they are fighters. They like people, and sometimes they hate people. I am sorry, I apologize. I am trying to learn. It’s not easy. It’s not easy.
When they impeach you for nothing, then you’re supposed to like them. It’s not easy, folks. I do my best. But I’ll tell you what we are doing. We’re restoring hope and spreading faith. We’re helping citizens of every background take part in the great rebuilding of our nation. We’re declaring that America will always shine as a land of liberty and light unto all nations of the world. We want every nation to look up to us like they are right now. We were not a respected nation just a few years ago, we had lost our way. Our country is respected again by everybody.
This morning, let us ask Father in Heaven to guide our steps, protect our children, and bless our families. And with all of our heart, let us forever embrace the eternal truth that every child is made equal by the hand of almighty God. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Members of Congress, the President of the United States.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and my fellow citizens, three years ago we launched the great American comeback. Tonight I stand before you to share the incredible results. Jobs are booming, incomes are soaring, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, confidence is surging and our country is thriving and highly respected again. America’s enemies are on the run. America’s fortunes are on the rise and America’s future is blazing bright. The years of economic decay are over. The days of our country being used, taken advantage of and even scorned by other nations are long behind us. Gone too are the broken promises, jobless recoveries, tired platitudes and constant excuses for the depletion of American wealth, power, and prestige.
In just three short years, we have shattered the mentality of American decline and we have rejected the downsizing of American’s destiny. We have totally rejected the downsizing. We are moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago and we are never ever going back. I am thrilled to report to you tonight that our economy is the best it has ever been. Our military is completely rebuilt, with its power being unmatched anywhere in the world and it’s not even close. Our borders are secure. Our families are flourishing. Our values are renewed. Our pride is restored. And for all of these reasons I say to the people of our great country and to the members of Congress, the state of our union is stronger than ever before. The vision I will lay out this evening demonstrates how we are building the world’s most prosperous and inclusive society. One where every citizen can join in America’s unparalleled success and where every community can take part in America’s extraordinary rise. From the instant I took office, I moved rapidly to revive the US economy, slashing a record number of job killing regulations, enacting historic and record setting tax cuts, and fighting for fair and reciprocal trade agreements. Our agenda is relentlessly pro-worker, pro-family, pro-growth, and most of all pro-American. Thank you. We are advancing with unbridled optimism and lifting our citizens of every race, color, religion and creed very, very high.
Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs, 5 million more than government experts projected during the previous administration. The unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century. And very incredibly, the average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any administration in the history of our country. If we hadn’t reversed the failed economic policies of the previous administration, the world would not now be witnessing this great economic success. The unemployment for African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached the lowest levels in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low. African American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded.
The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest level in almost 70 years and last year women filled 72% of all new jobs added. The veteran’s unemployment rate dropped to a record low. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all time low. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate recorded in US history. A record number of young Americans are now employed. Under the last administration, more than 10 million people were added to the food stamp rolls. Under my administration, 7 million Americans have come off food stamps and 10 million people have been lifted off of welfare.
In eight years, under the last administration, over 300,000 working age people dropped out of the workforce. In just three years of my administration, 3.5 million people, working age people, have joined the workforce. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. After decades of flat and falling incomes, wages are rising fast and wonderfully they are rising fastest for low income workers who have seen a 16% pay increase since my election. This is a blue collar boom. Real median household income is now at the highest level ever recorded.
Since my election, US stock markets have soared 70%, adding more than $12 trillion to our nation’s wealth, transcending anything anyone believed was possible. This is a record, it is something that every country in the world is looking up to, they admire. Consumer confidence has just reached amazing new highs. All of those millions of people with 401ks and pensions are doing far better than they have ever done before with increases of 60, 70, 80, 90 and 100% and even more. Jobs and investments are pouring into 9,000 previously neglected neighborhoods, thanks to Opportunity Zones, a plan spearheaded by Senator Tim Scott, as part of our great Republican tax cuts. In other words, wealthy people and companies are pouring money into poor neighborhoods or areas that haven’t seen investment in many decades, creating jobs, energy and excitement. This is the first time that these deserving communities have seen anything like this. It’s all working. Opportunity Zones are helping Americans like Army veteran, Tony Rankins from Cincinnati, Ohio. After struggling with drug addiction, Tony lost his job, his house and his family. He was homeless, but then Tony found a construction company that invests in Opportunity Zones. He is now a top tradesman, drug free, reunited with his family and he is here tonight. Tony, keep up the great work. Tony. Thank you Tony.
Our roaring economy has for the first time ever, given many former prisoners the ability to get a great job and a fresh start. This second chance at life is made possible because we passed Landmark Criminal Justice Reform into law. Everybody said that criminal justice reform couldn’t be done, but I got it done and the people in this room got it done. Thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign, the United States has become the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far. With the tremendous progress we have made over the past three years, America is now energy independent and energy jobs, like so many other elements of our country, are at a record high. We are doing numbers that no one would have thought possible just three years ago. Likewise, we are restoring our nations manufacturing might, even though predictions were, as you all know, that this could never ever be done. After losing 60,000 factories under the previous two administrations, America has now gained 12,000 new factories under my administration, with thousands upon thousands of plants and factories being planned or being built. Companies are not leaving, they are coming back to the USA. The fact is that everybody wants to be where the action is and the United States of America is indeed the place where the action is.
One of the biggest promises I made to the American people was to replace the disastrous NAFTA trade deal. In fact, unfair trade is perhaps the single biggest reason that I decided to run for President. Following NAFTA as adoption, our nation lost one in four manufacturing jobs. Many politicians came and went, pledging to change or replace NAFTA, only to do so and then absolutely nothing happened. But unlike so many who came before me, I keep my promises. We did our job. Six days ago, I replaced NAFTA and signed the brand new United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement into law. The USMCA will create nearly 100,000 new high paying American auto jobs and massively boost exports for our farmers, ranchers, and factory workers.
It will also bring trade with Mexico and Canada to a much higher level. But also to be a much greater degree of fairness and reciprocity, we will have that fairness and reciprocity. And I say that finally, because it’s been many, many years that we were treated fairly on trade. This is the first major trade deal in many years to earn the strong backing of America’s labor unions. I also promised our citizens that I would impose tariffs to confront China’s massive theft of America’s jobs. Our strategy has worked. Days ago we signed the groundbreaking new agreement with China, that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, bring billions and billions of dollars into our treasury and open vast new markets for products made and grown right here in the USA. For decades, China has taken advantage of the United States. Now we have changed that, but at the same time we have perhaps the best relationship we’ve ever had with China, including with president Xi. They respect what we’ve done because quite frankly, they could never really believe that they were able to get away with what they were doing year after year, decade after decade, without someone in our country stepping up and saying, “That’s enough.” Now we want to rebuild our country and that’s exactly what we’re doing. We are rebuilding our country. As we restore American leadership throughout the world, we are once again standing up for freedom in our hemisphere. That’s why my administration reversed the failing policies of the previous administration on Cuba. We are supporting the hopes of Cubans, Nicaraguans and Venezuelans to restore democracy. The United States is leading a 59 nation diplomatic coalition against the socialist dictator of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro. Maduro is an illegitimate ruler, a tyrant who brutalizes his people, but Maduro’s grip tyranny will be smashed and broken.
Here this evening, is a very brave man who carries with him the hopes, dreams, and aspirations of all Venezuelans. Joining us in the gallery is the true and legitimate President of Venezuela, Juan Guido, Mr. President, please take this message back to your opponent. Thank you, Mr. President, a great honor. Thank you very much. Please take this message back that all Americans are United with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom. Thank you very much Mr. President. Thank you very much. Socialism destroys nations, but always remember freedom unifies the soul.
To safeguard American liberty, we have invested a record breaking $2.2 trillion in the United States military. We have purchased the finest planes, missiles, rocket ships, and every other form of military equipment and it’s all made right here in the USA. We’re also getting our allies finally, to help pay their fair share. I have raised contributions from other NATO members by more than $400 billion and the number of allies meeting their minimum obligations has more than doubled. And just weeks ago, for the first time since President Truman established the Air Force more than 70 years earlier, we created a brand new branch of the United States armed forces. It’s called the Space Force. It’s very important.
In the gallery tonight, we have a young gentleman and what he wants so badly… 13 years old, Iain Lanphier. He’s an eighth grader from Arizona. Iain, please stand up. Iain has always dreamed of going to space. He was the first in his class and among the youngest at an aviation academy. He aspires to go to the Air Force Academy and then he has his eye on the Space Force. As Iain says, “Most people look up at space. I want to look down on the world.” But sitting behind Iain tonight is his greatest hero of them all, Charles McGee, who was born in Cleveland Ohio, one century ago. Charles is one of the last surviving Tuskegee airman, the first black fighter pilots, and…
Eggy Airman, the first black fighter pilots, and he also happens to be Ian’s great grandfather. Incredible story. After more than 130 combat missions in World War II, he came back home to a country still struggling for civil rights and went on to serve America in Korea and Vietnam. On December 7th Charles celebrated his 100th birthday. A few weeks ago, I signed a bill promoting Charles McGee to Brigadier General. And earlier today I pinned the stars on his shoulders in the Oval Office. General McGee, our nation salutes you. Thank you sir. From the pilgrims to the founders, from the soldiers at Valley Forge to the marchers at Selma and from President Lincoln to the Reverend Martin Luther King, Americans have always rejected limits on our children’s future. Members of Congress we must never forget that the only victories that matter in Washington are victories that deliver for the American people.
The people are the heart of our country. Their dreams are the soul of our country, and their love is what powers and sustains our country. We must always remember that our job is to put America first.
The next step forward and building an inclusive society is making sure that every young American gets a great education and the opportunity to achieve the American dream. Yet, for too long, countless American children have been trapped in failing government schools. To rescue these students 18 States have created school choice in the form of opportunity scholarships. The programs are so popular that tens of thousands of students remain on a waiting list. One of those students is Jenaya Davis, a fourth grader from Philadelphia, Jenaya.
Jenaya’s mom Stephanie is a single parent. She would do anything to give her daughter a better future, but last year that future was put further out of reach when Pennsylvania’s governor vetoed legislation to expand school choice to 50,000 children. Jenaya and Stephanie are in the gallery. Stephanie, thank you so much for being here with your beautiful daughter. Thank you very much.
But Jenaya I have some good news for you because I am pleased to inform you that your long wait is over. I can proudly announced tonight that an opportunity scholarship has become available. It’s going to you and you will soon be heading to the school of your choice. Now I call on Congress to give one million American children the same opportunity, Jenaya has just received. Pass the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act because no parents should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.
Every young person should have a safe and secure environment in which to learn and to grow. For this reason, our magnificent first lady has launched The Be Best initiative to advance a safe, healthy, supportive and drug free life for the next generation online in school and in our communities. Thank you, Melania, for your extraordinary love and profound care for America’s children. Thank you very much. My administration is determined to give our citizens the opportunities they need regardless of age or background. Through our pledge to American workers over 400 companies will also provide new jobs and education opportunities to almost 15 million Americans. My budget also contains an exciting vision for our nation’s high schools. Tonight, I ask Congress to support our students and back my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every single high school in America. To expand equal opportunity, I am also proud that we achieved record and permanent funding for our nation’s historically black colleges and universities. A good life for American families also requires the most affordable, innovative and high quality healthcare system on earth. Before I took office health insurance premiums had more than doubled in just five years. I moved quickly to provide affordable alternatives. Our new plans are up to 60% less expensive and better. I’ve also made an Ironclad Pledge to American families. We will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And we will always protect your Medicare and we will always protect your Social Security, always.
The American patients should never be blindsided by medical bills. That is why I signed an executive order requiring price transparency. Many experts believe that transparency, which will go into full effect at the beginning of next year will be even bigger than healthcare reform. It will save families massive amounts of money for substantially better care, but as we work to improve Americans health care, there are those who want to take away your healthcare, take away your doctor, and abolish private insurance entirely. 132 lawmakers in this room have endorsed legislation to impose a socialist takeover of our healthcare system, wiping out the private health insurance plans of 180 million very happy Americans. To those watching at home tonight, I want you to know we will never let socialism destroy American healthcare.
Over 130 legislators in this chamber have endorsed legislation that would bankrupt our nation by providing free taxpayer funded healthcare to millions of illegal aliens forcing taxpayers to subsidize free care for anyone in the world who unlawfully crosses our borders. These proposals would raid the Medicare benefits of our seniors and that our seniors depend on while acting as a powerful lure for illegal immigration. That is what is happening in California and other States. Their systems are totally out of control, costing taxpayers vast and unaffordable amounts of money. If forcing American taxpayers to provide unlimited free healthcare to illegal alien sounds fair to you, then stand with the radical Left. But if you believe that we should defend American patients and American seniors then stand with me and pass legislation to prohibit free government healthcare for illegal aliens.
This will be a tremendous boon to our already very strongly guarded Southern border where as we speak, a long, tall and very powerful wall is being built. We have now completed over 100 miles and have over 500 miles fully completed in a very short period of time. Early next year we will have substantially more than 500 miles completed. My administration is also taking on the big pharmaceutical companies. We have approved a record number of affordable generic drugs and medicines are being approved by the FDA at a faster clip than ever before.
And I was pleased to announce last year that for the first time in 51 years, the costs of prescription drugs actually went down. And working together Congress can reduce drug prices substantially from current levels. I’ve been speaking to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and others in Congress in order to get something on drug pricing done and done quickly and properly. I’m calling for bipartisan legislation that achieves the goal of dramatically lowering prescription drug prices. Get a bill on my desk and I will sign it into law immediately. With unyielding commitment we are curbing the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths declined for the first time in nearly 30 years. Among the States hardest hit Ohio is down 22%, Pennsylvania is down 18%, Wisconsin is down 10%, and we will not quit until we have beaten the opioid epidemic once and for all.
Protecting Americans health also means fighting infectious diseases. We are coordinating with the Chinese government and working closely together on the Corona virus outbreak in China. My administration will take all necessary steps to safeguard our citizens from this threat. We have launched ambitious new initiatives to substantially improve care for Americans with kidney disease, Alzheimer’s, and those struggling with mental health. And because Congress was so good as to fund my request, new cures for childhood cancer, and we will eradicate the AIDS epidemic in America by the end of this decade.
Almost every American family knows the pain when a loved one is diagnosed with a serious illness. Here tonight is a special man, beloved by millions of Americans who just received a stage four advanced cancer diagnosis. This is not good news, but what is good news is that he is the greatest fighter and winner that you will ever meet. Rush Limbaugh, thank you for your decades of tireless devotion to our country. And Rush in recognition of all that you have done for our nation, the millions of people a day that you speak to and that you inspire and all of the incredible work that you have done for charity I am proud to announce tonight that you will be receiving our country’s highest civilian honor, The Presidential Medal of Freedom. I will now ask the first lady of the United States to present you with the honor. Please. Rush and Catherine, congratulations. Thank you, Catherine.
As we pray for all who are sick, we know that America is constantly achieving new medical breakthroughs. In 2017 doctors at Saint Luke’s Hospital in Kansas City delivered one of the earliest premature babies ever to survive. Born at just 21 weeks and six days and weighing less than a pound, Ellie Schneider was a born fighter. Through the skill of her doctors and the prayers of her parents, little Ellie kept on winning the battle of life. Today Ellie is a strong, healthy two year old girl sitting with her amazing mother, Robin in the gallery, Ellie and Robin we’re glad to have you with us tonight. Ella reminds us that every child is a miracle of life and thanks to modern medical wonders. 50% of very premature babies delivered at the hospital where Ellie was born now survive. It’s an incredible thing. Thank you very much.
Our goal should be to ensure that every baby has the best chance to thrive and grow just like Ellie. That is why I’m asking Congress to provide an additional $50 million to fund neonatal research for America’s youngest patients. That is why I’m also calling upon members of Congress here tonight to pass legislation finally banning the late term abortion of babies.
Whether we are Republican, Democrat, or Independent, surely we must all agree that every human life is a sacred gift from God. As we support America’s moms and dads, I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the federal workforce, paid family leave, serving as a model for the rest of the country. Now, I call on Congress to pass the bipartisan advancing Support for Working Families Act, extending family leave to mothers and fathers all across our nation. 40 million American families have an average $2,200 extra thanks to our child tax credit.
I’ve also overseen historic funding increases for high quality childcare, enabling 17 States to help more children, many of which have reduced or eliminated their wait lists altogether. And I sent Congress a plan with a vision to further expand access to high quality childcare and urge you to act immediately.
To protect the environment, days ago I announced that the United States will join the 1 Trillion Tree Initiative and ambitious effort to bring together government and private sector to plant new trees in America and all around the world.
We must also rebuild America’s infrastructure. I asked you to pass Senator John Barrasso’s Highway Bill to invest in new roads, bridges, and tunnels all across our land. I’m also committed to ensuring that every citizen can have access to high speed Internet, including and especially in rural America. A better tomorrow for all Americans also requires us to keep America safe. That means supporting the men and women of law enforcement at every level, including our nation’s heroic ICE officers.
Last year, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2000 murders. Tragically, there are many cities in America where radical politicians have chosen to provide sanctuary for these criminal illegal aliens. In sanctuary cities local officials order police to release dangerous criminal aliens to prey upon the public instead of handing them over to ICE to be safely removed. Just 29 days ago, a criminal alien freed by the sanctuary city of New York was charged with the brutal rape and murder of a 92 year old woman. The killer had been previously arrested for assault, but under New York sanctuary policies, he was set free. If the city had honored ICE’s detainer requests, his victim would still be alive today.
The state of California passed an outrageous law declaring their whole state to be a sanctuary for criminal illegal immigrants, a very terrible sanctuary with catastrophic results. Here is just one tragic example. In December, 2018 California police detained an illegal alien with five prior arrests, including convictions for robbery and assault, but as required by California sanctuary law, local authorities released him. Days later, the criminal alien went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence. He…
Ellian went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence. He viciously shot one man going about his daily work. He approached a woman sitting in her car and shot her in the arm and in the chest. He walked into a convenience store and wildly fired his weapon. He hijacked a truck and smashed into vehicles, critically injuring innocent victims. One of the victims is a terrible, terrible situation, died 51-year-old American named Rocky Jones. Rocky was at a gas station when this vile criminal fired eight bullets at him from close range murdering him and cold blood.
Rocky left behind a devoted family, including his brothers who loved him more than anything else in the world. One of his grieving brothers is here with us tonight. Jody, would you please stand? Jody? Thank you.
Jody, our hearts weep for your lost and we will not rest until you have justice. Senator Thom Tillis has introduced legislation to allow Americans like Jody to sue sanctuary cities and states when a loved one is hurt or killed as a result of these deadly practices.
I asked Congress to pass the Justice for Victims of Sanctuary Cities Act immediately. The United States of America should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal alien.
In the last three years, ICE has arrested over 5,000 wicked human traffickers and I have side nine pieces of legislation to stamp out the menace of human trafficking domestically and all around the globe. My administration has undertaken and unprecedented effort to secure the Southern border of the United States
Before I came into office, if you showed up illegally on our Southern border and were arrested, you were simply released and allowed into our country never to be seen again. My administration has ended catch and release.
If you come illegally, you will now be promptly removed from our country.
Very importantly, we entered into historic cooperation agreements with the governments of Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala. As a result of our unprecedented efforts, illegal crossings are down 75% since May dropping eight straight months in a row.
And as the wall rapidly goes up, drug seizures rise and the border crossings are going down and going down very rapidly. Last year, I traveled to the border in Texas and met Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz. Over the last 24 months, Agent Ortiz and his team have seized more than 200,000 pounds of poisoners narcotics, arrested more than 3,000 human smugglers and rescued more than 2,000 migrants. Days ago, Agent Ortiz was promoted to deputy chief of border patrol and he joins us tonight. Chief Ortiz, please stand.
A grateful nation thanks you and all of the heroes of border patrol and ICE. Thank you very much. Thank you. To build on these historic gains, we are working on legislation to replace our outdated and randomized immigration system with one based on merit, welcoming those who follow the rules, contribute to our economy, support themselves financially, and uphold our values.
With every action, my administration is restoring the rule of law and reasserting the culture of American freedom.
Working with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, thank you, Mitch, and his colleagues in the Senate, we have confirmed a record number of 187 new federal judges to uphold our constitution as written. This includes two brilliant new Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Thank you. And we have many in the pipeline.
My administration is also defending religious liberty and that includes the constitutional right to pray in public schools.
In America, we don’t punish prayer. We don’t tear down crosses. We don’t band symbols of faith. We don’t muzzle preachers and pastors. In America, we celebrate faith, we cherish religion. We lift our voices in prayer and we raise our sights to the glory of God. Just as we believe in the first amendment, we also believe in another constitutional right that is under siege all across our country. So long as I am president, I will always protect your second amendment right to keep and bear arms.
In reaffirming our heritage as a free nation, we must remember that America has always been a frontier nation. Now we must embrace the next frontier, America’s manifest destiny in the stars. I am asking Congress to fully fund the Artemis program to ensure that the next man and the first woman on the moon will be American astronauts using this as a launching pad to ensure that America is the first nation to plant its flag on Mars.
My administration is also strongly defending our national security and combating radical Islamic terrorism.
Last week, I announced the groundbreaking plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Recognizing that all past attempts have failed, we must be determined and creative in order to stabilize the region and give millions of young people the chance to realize a better future. Three years ago, the barbarians of ISIS held over 20,000 square miles of territory in Iraq and Syria. Today, the ISIS territorial caliphate has been 100% destroyed and the founder and leader of ISIS, the bloodthirsty killer known as al-Baghdadi is dead.
We are joined this evening by Carl and Marcia Mueller. After graduating from college, their beautiful daughter Kayla became a humanitarian aid worker. She once wrote, some people find God in church. Some people find God in nature. Some people find God in love. I find God in suffering. I’ve known for some time what my life’s work is, using my hands as tools to relieve suffering. In 2013 while caring for suffering civilians in Syria, Kayla was kidnapped, tortured, and enslaved by ISIS and kept as a prisoner of al-Baghdadi himself.
After more than 500 horrifying days of captivity, al-Baghdadi murdered young, beautiful Kayla. She was just 26-years-old. On the night that US Special Forces operations ended al-Baghdadi’s miserable life, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff General Mark Milley received a call in the situation room. He was told that the brave men of the elite special forces team that so perfectly carried out the operation had given their mission a name task force 814. It was a reference to a special day, August 14, Kayla’s birthday. Carl and Marsha, America’s warriors never forgot Kayla and neither will we. Thank you. Every day, America’s men and women in uniform demonstrate the infinite depth of love that dwells in the human heart. One of these American heroes was Army Staff Sergeant Christopher Hake. On his second deployment to Iraq in 2008, Sergeant Hake wrote a letter to his one-year-old son, Gage, I will be with you again. He wrote to gage. I will teach you to ride your first bike, build your first sandbox, watch you play sports and see you have kids also. I love you son. Take care of your mother. I am always with you. Daddy.
On Easter Sunday of 2008, Chris was out on patrol in Baghdad when his Bradley fighting vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb. That night, he made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Sergeant Hake now rests in eternal glory in Arlington and his wife Kelly is in the gallery tonight, joined by their son, who is now a 13-year-old and doing very, very well. To Kelly and Gage, Chris will live in our hearts forever. He’s looking down on you now. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you both very much. The terrorist responsible for killing Sergeant Hake was Qasem Soleimani, who provided the deadly roadside bomb that took Chris’s life. Soleimani was the Iranian regime’s most ruthless butcher, a monster who murder or wounded thousands of American service members in Iraq. As the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani orchestrated the deaths of countless men, women and children. He directed the December assault and went on to assault US forces in Iraq, was actively planning new attacks when we hit him very hard. And that’s why last month at my direction, the US military executed a flawless precision strike that killed Soleimani and terminated his evil reign of terror forever.
Our message to the terrorists is clear. You will never escape American justice. If you attack our citizens, you forfeit your life. In recent months, we have seen prouder radians raise their voices against their oppressive rulers. The Iranian regime must abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons, stop spreading terror, death and destruction, and start working for the good of its own people. Because of our powerful sanctions, the Iranian economy is doing very, very poorly. We can help them make a very good and short time recovery.
It can all go very quickly, but perhaps they are too proud or too foolish to ask for that help. We are here. Let’s see which road they choose. It is totally up to them.
As we defend American lives, we are working to end America’s Wars in the Middle East. In Afghanistan, the determination and valor of our war fighters has allowed us to make tremendous progress and peace talks are now underway. I am not looking to kill hundreds of thousands of people in Afghanistan, many of them totally innocent. It is also not our function to serve other nations as law enforcement agencies. These are war fighters that we have, the best in the world, and they either want to fight to win or not fight at all.
We are working to finally end America’s longest war and bring our troops back home. War places a heavy burden on our nation’s extraordinary military families, especially spouses like Amy Williams from Fort Bragg, North Carolina and her two children, six-year-old Eliana and three-year-old Rowan. Amy works full time and volunteers countless hours helping other military families. For the past seven months, she has done it all while her husband’s Sergeant First Class Townsend Williams is in Afghanistan on his fourth deployment in the Middle East. Amy’s kids haven’t seen their father’s face in many months.
Amy, your family’s sacrifice makes possible for all of our families to live in safety and in peace and we want to thank you. Thank you, Amy. But, Amy, there is one more thing. Tonight, we have a very special surprise. I am thrilled to inform you that your husband is back from deployment. He is here with us tonight and we couldn’t keep him waiting any longer.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Welcome home, Sergeant Williams. Thank you very much. As the world bears witness tonight, America is a land of heroes. There’s a place where greatness is born, where destinies are forged and where legends come to life. This is the home of Thomas Edison and Teddy Roosevelt, of many great generals including Washington, Pershing, Patton, and MacArthur. This is the home of Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, Amelia Earhart, Harriet Tubman, the Wright brothers, Neil Armstrong, and so many more. This is the country where children learn names like Wyatt Earp, Davy Crockett and Annie Oakley. This is the place where the pilgrims landed at Plymouth and where Texas patriots made their last stand at the Alamo. The beautiful, beautiful Alamo. The American nation was carved out of the vast frontier by the toughest, strongest, fiercest, and most determined men and women ever to walk on the face of the earth. Our ancestors braved the unknown, tamed the wilderness, settled the wild West, lifted millions from poverty, disease and hunger, vanquished tyranny and fascism, ushered the world to new heights of science and medicine, laid down the railroads, dug out the canals, raised up the skyscrapers and ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors built the most exceptional republic ever to exist in all of human history and we are making it greater than ever before. This is our glorious and magnificent inheritance. We are Americans. We are pioneers. We are the pathfinders. We settled the new world. We built the modern world and we change history forever by embracing the eternal truth that everyone is made equal by the hand of almighty God. America is the place where anything can happen. America is the place where anyone can rise. And here on this land, on this soil, on this continent, the most incredible dreams come true. This nation is our canvas and this country is our masterpiece. We look at tomorrow and see unlimited frontiers just waiting to be explored. Our brightest discoveries are not yet known. Our most thrilling stories are not yet told. Our grandest journeys are not yet made. The American age, the American epic, the American adventure has only just begun.
Our spirit is still young. The sun is still rising. God’s grace is still shining. And my fellow Americans, the best is yet to come. Thank you, God bless you and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Today Israel takes a big step towards peace. Young people across the Middle East are ready for a more hopeful future and governments through out the region are realizing that terrorism and Islamic extremism are everyone’s common enemy. Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting with both the prime minister of Israel and a man that’s working very hard to become the prime minister of Israel in the longest running election of all time, Benny Gantz of the Blue and White party, and both leaders joined me to express their support for this effort, proving that the state of Israel is looking for peace and that peace transcends politics by any measure. Unmeasurable. That’s what they want. On my first trip overseas as president, I visited the Holy Land of Israel. I was deeply moved an amazed by what this small country had achieved in the face of overwhelming odds and never-ending threats. The state of Israel comprises only a minuscule amount of land in the Middle East, and yet it has become a thriving center of democracy and of ancient culture and commerce. Israel is a light unto the world, the hearts and history of our people are woven together. The land of Israel is an ancient home, a sacred place of worship, and a solemn promise to the Jewish people that we will never again repeat history’s darkest hour.
During my trip to Israel, I also met with Palestinian President Abbas in Bethlehem. I was saddened by the fate of the Palestinian people. They deserve a far better life, they deserve the chance to achieve their extraordinary potential. Palestinians have been trapped in a cycle of terrorism, poverty, and violence exploited by those seeking to use them as pawns to advance terrorism and extremism.
I returned from my visit determined to find a constructive path and it’s got to be a very powerful path forward in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. To further this effort, I also met with President Abbas at the White House. Forging peace between Israelis and Palestinians may be the most difficult challenge of all. All prior administrations from President Lyndon Johnson have tried and bitterly failed, but I was not elected to do small things or shy away from big problems.
It’s been a long and very arduous process to arrive at this moment. On Sunday I delivered to Prime Minister Netanyahu my vision for peace, prosperity, and a brighter future for Israelis and Palestinians. This vision for peace is fundamentally different from past proposals. In the past, even the most well-intentioned plans were light on factual details and heavy on conceptual frameworks. By contrast, our plan is 80 pages and is the most detailed proposal ever put forward by far. As I have seen throughout my long career as a deal-maker, complex problems require nuanced, fact-based remedies. That is why our proposal provides precise technical solutions to make Israelis, Palestinians, and the region safer and much more prosperous. My vision presents a win-win opportunity for both sides, a realistic two-state solution that resolves the risk of Palestinian statehood to Israel’s security.
Today Israel has taken a giant step toward peace. Yesterday Prime Minister Netanyahu informed me that he is willing to endorse the vision as the basis for direct negotiations, and I will say, the general also endorsed, and very strongly, with the Palestinians a historic breakthrough. And likewise, we have really a situation having to do with a race that is taking place right now. It will end and we have the support, and it’s very important to say this, of both parties and almost all people in Israel. They want peace and they want peace badly.
This is the first time Israel has authorized the release of a conceptual map illustrating the territorial compromises it’s willing to make for the cause of peace and they’ve gone a long way. This is an unprecedented and highly significant development. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for having the courage to take this bold step forward. We have a lot of powerful people in this room, a lot of the people that can help make it work. So that’s quite a thunderous applause. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you. We will form a joint committee with Israel to convert the conceptual map into a more detailed and calibrated rendering so that recognition can be immediately achieved. We will also work to create a contiguous territory within the future Palestinian state, for when the conditions for statehood are met, including the firm rejection of terrorism.
Under this vision, Jerusalem will remain Israel’s undivided, very important, undivided capital. But that’s no big deal because I’ve already done that for you. We’ve already done that, but that’s okay. It’s going to remain that way and the United States will recognize Israeli sovereignty over the territory that my vision provides to be part of the state of Israel, very important. And crucially, the proposed transition to a two-state solution will present no incremental security risk to the state of Israel whatsoever. We will not allow a return to the days of bloodshed, bus bombings, nightclub attacks, and relentless terror. Won’t be allowed. Peace requires compromise, but we will never ask Israel to compromise its security. Can’t do that.
As everyone knows, I have done a lot for Israel, moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem, recognizing the Golan Heights, and frankly, perhaps most importantly, getting out of the terrible Iran nuclear deal. There is a lot of spirit in this room. It’s true. You don’t see it often. You don’t see it often. Therefore, it is only reasonable that I have to do a lot for the Palestinians or it just wouldn’t be fair. Don’t clap for that but it’s true. It wouldn’t be fair. I want this deal to be a great deal for the Palestinians. It has to be.
Today’s agreement is a historic opportunity for the Palestinians to finally achieve an independent state of their very own. After 70 years of little progress, this could be the last opportunity they will ever have, and last for a lot of reasons. We’ll never have a team like we have right now. We have a team of people that love the United States, and they love Israel, and they’re very smart, and very, very committed, from your ambassador, David Friedman to Jason and Avi and Jared, and they are all great deal makers and they also understand the other side and they want the other side to do well, because that’s the sign of a great deal and they understand that.
And I just appreciate all the hard work you’ve put in and so many of your other friends. And, of course, our great Secretary of state, Mike Pompeo. Oh, that’s impressive. That was very impressive, Mike. That reporter couldn’t have done too good a job on you yesterday. I think you did a good job on her actually. That’s good. Thank you, Mike. Great, are you running for Senate? I guess the answer is no after that. They all want him to. Kansas, great state. They want him to, but you’re doing a great job. Don’t move.
The Palestinian people have grown distrustful after years of unfulfilled promises, so true, yet I know they are ready to escape their tragic past and realize a great destiny. But we must break free of yesterday’s failed approaches. This map will more than double the Palestinian territory and provide a Palestinian capital in eastern Jerusalem where America will proudly open an embassy. No Palestinians or Israelis will be uprooted from their homes. Israel will work closely with a wonderful person, a wonderful man, the King of Jordan, to ensure that the status quo of the Temple Mount is preserved and strong measures are taken to ensure that all Muslims who wish to visit peacefully and pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque will be able to do so. This is a major statement. This is of major importance.
And at the same time, our vision will deliver a massive commercial investment of $50 billion into the new Palestinian state. You have many, many countries that want to partake in this, and many of them are surrounding. They all want this to happen. Virtually every one of them want this to happen. And I think, Bibi, you know that very well. You’re going to have tremendous support from your neighbors and beyond your neighbors.
Over the next 10 years, if executed well, 1 million great new Palestinian jobs will be created. Their poverty rate will be cut in half. And their poverty rate is unacceptable now and only getting worse. Their GDP will double and triple and much-needed hope, joy, opportunity, and prosperity will finally arrive for the Palestinian people. Our vision will end the cycle of Palestinian dependency upon charity and foreign aid. They will be doing phenomenally all by themselves. They are a very, very capable people. And we will help by empowering the Palestinians to thrive on their own. Palestinians will be able to seize the new future with dignity, self-sufficiency, and national pride.
To ensure a successful Palestinian state, we are asking the Palestinians to meet the challenges of peaceful co-existence. This includes adopting basic laws enshrining human rights, protecting against financial…
Laws, enshrining human rights. Protecting against financial and political corruption, stopping the malign activities of Hamas, Islamic jihad and other enemies of peace. Ending the incitement of hatred against Israel, so important, and permanently halting the financial compensation to terrorists.
And perhaps most importantly, my vision gives the Palestinians the time needed to rise up and meet the challenges of statehood. I sent a letter today to President Abbas. I explained to him that the territory allocated for his new state will remain open and undeveloped for a period of four years.
During this time, Palestinians can use all appropriate deliberation to study the deal, negotiate with Israel, achieve the criteria for statehood, and become a truly independent and wonderful state. President Abbas, I want you to know that if you choose the path to peace, America and many other countries we will be there. We will be there to help you in so many different ways and we will be there every step of the way. We will be there to help.
In other words, for the first time in many, many decades, I can say it will work. It’s going to work. If they do this, it will work. Your response to this historic opportunity will show the world to what extent you are ready to lead the Palestinian people to statehood. The Middle East is changing rapidly. On my first trip aboard as President, I traveled to Saudi Arabia to discuss our shared priorities with the 54 leaders of the Muslim and Arab countries.
I made clear that all civilized nations share the same goals, stamping out extremism, creating opportunity for the region’s youth, and we have to take care of the region’s youth. The region’s youth is growing up with no hope. We have to take care of the regions youth and existing in harmony with one’s neighbors. Since that time, immense progress has been made. A growing number of nations have taken strong stands against terrorism and radicalization. You see it. Thanks to the courage of US forces the ISIS territorial caliphate, 100%; not 95% not 99, or any other percent, 100% of their caliphate, ISIS is destroyed. And its Savage leader Al-Baghdadi is now dead.
And I want to thank, we have some our great senators and congressmen and women here and I want to thank you all for the tremendous help. Thank you very much. Jim. Ted, everybody. Stew. Our leader, thank you. Mark, thank you. Great people. These are great people. They work so hard and they love this country.
The Iranian regime is isolated and weakened greatly. We eliminated Qasem Soleimani the worlds top terrorist. And as you know, he was with the head of Hezbollah. I don’t think they were up to anything good. I don’t think so. He ran an organization called Jerusalem Liberation Forces and used his hatred, total severe hatred of Israel as a rallying cry to divert attention from the incompetence and shortcomings of his government.
He falsely promoted the sinister notion that a free Jerusalem, we must really be at war with Israel. So to have it free, we have to be at war with Israel and he said it very, very powerfully. In fact, it’s been in this false war that Israel really the enemies of peace have used it. They just used it as an excuse to divide and totally oppress the Middle East. In truth, Jerusalem is liberated.
Jerusalem is a safe, open, democratic city that welcomes people of all faiths and all places. It is time for the Muslim world to fix the mistake it made in 1948 when it chose to attack instead of recognize the new state of Israel. It’s time. Since then, the amount of needless bloodshed and all squandered opportunities, so many squandered opportunities in the name of senseless causes is beyond measure. The Palestinians have been the primary pawn in this regional adventurism and it’s time for this sad chapter in history to end, end quickly, end now. It’s never too late for courageous leaders to set a new course to pursue what is right, to change the future, only for the better.
America is prepared to work with all parties on our vision. So many other countries are willing, ready, and able to work with us. I’ve spoken to many of them. I cannot believe the amount of support this morning has. I cannot believe it. I have been called by leaders. Boris called so many called and they’re all saying whatever we can do to help, they all want to see it happen.
But America cannot care more about peace than the stakeholders in the region. There are many Muslims who never visited Al-Aqsa and many Christians and Jews who never visited the Holy sites in the West bank described so vividly in the Bible. My vision will change that. Our majestic biblical heritage will be able to live, breathe, and flourish in modern times. All humanity should be able to enjoy the glories of the Holy land. This part of the world is forever connected to the human soul and the human spirit. These ancient lands should not be symbols of conflict, but eternal symbols of peace.
Thank you again for all of the work you’ve all done and all of these incredible honored guests for being here and in particular, I want to thank Prime Minister Netanyahu. I also want to thank Oman Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates for the incredible work they’ve done helping us with so much and sending their ambassadors to be with us today. Thank you very much for being here.
Omar Bahrain and the Arab Emirates?
Yes [inaudible 00:24:33]. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please give our regards. America’s partnerships in the region have never been greater, and our alliance with the state of Israel has never ever been stronger than it is today.
Together we can bring about a new dawn in the Middle East. And I would now, again, just like to thank everybody and a very special group of people, an incredible group of people. So many have been with us on this journey right from the beginning and we’re getting there. They say it’s the toughest deal ever to make in business when I have a tough deal, people would say this is tougher than the Israelis and the Palestinians. They used it as an excuse, meaning that was always the standard. Actually, there’s nothing tougher than this one, but we have to get it done. We have an obligation to humanity to get it done.
So I would now like to introduce the prime minister of Israel who’s worked so hard on this. Benjamin Netanyahu, thank you.
Thank you. In the middle East. We drink water before a long voyage. This is an extraordinary voyage. President Trump, Donald, I’m honored to be here today along with my wife Sarah, Minister Reuven Rivlin, Ambassador Ron Dermer. Ron, thank you for everything you’ve been doing. National Security Advisor Meir Ben Shabbat, thank you to Meir. And our entire delegation. We’re honored to be here with you, Mr President with Secretary Of State Mike Pompeo. We applaud you, Mike. Secretary of the treasury, Steve Minutian, National Security Advisor, Robert O’Brien, America’s UN Ambassador Kelly Craft. Jared Kushner and Ivanka, it’s good to see you both. It’s good to see the unfailingly energetic and optimistic Ambassador David Friedman, Jason Greenblatt, Avi Berkowitz, Brian Hook, and the rest of your exceptional peace band, Mr President. It’s good to be here with the other distinguished ladies and gentlemen of your administration with senators and members of Congress who are Israel’s greatest friends on Capitol Hill. Thank you. Thank you. With the ambassadors of the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Oman. What a pleasure to see you here and what a sign it pertains, I was going to say of the future, what a sign it pertains of the present.
To all of you and to the many distinguished, other distinguished, guests who are here today. This is a historic day and it recalls another historic day. We remember May 14th, 1948 because on that day, President Truman became the first world leader to recognize the state of Israel. After our first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion declared our independence.
That day chartered a brilliant future. Mr President, I believe that down the decades, and perhaps down the centuries, we will also remember January 28th, 2020, because on this day you became the first world leader to recognize Israel’s sovereignty over areas in Judea and Sumeria that are vital to our security and central to our heritage.
And on this day, you too, have charted brilliant future. A brilliant future for Israelis, Palestinians, and the region by presenting a realistic path to a durable peace. Since the moment of its birth, Israel has yearned for peace with our Palestinian neighbors and peace with the broader Arab world. For decades, that peace has proved elusive despite so many well-intentioned plans, one after the other, they failed. Why did they fail?
They failed because they did not strike the right balance between Israel’s vital security and national interests and the Palestinians aspirations for self-determination. Too many plans tried to pressure Israel to withdraw from vital territory like the Jordan Valley. But you, Mr President, you recognized that Israel must have sovereignty in the Jordan Valley and other strategic areas of Judea and Sumeria rather than-
Strategic areas of Judea and Sumeria. Rather than pay easy lip service to Israel’s security and simply shut your eyes, hope for the best, you recognize that Israel must have sovereignty in places that enable Israel to defend itself by itself. For too long, far too long, the very heart of the land of Israel where our patriarchs prayed, our prophets preached and our kings ruled, has been outrageously branded as illegally occupied territory. Well today, Mr. President, you are puncturing this big lie. You are recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over all the Jewish communities in Judea and Sumeria, large and small alike.
These, as the distinguished pastors who are here know very well, these are places inscribed in the pages of the Bible. These are places carved into the bedrock of our common civilization, the sacred tomb in Hebron, where the fathers and mothers of the Jewish people are buried, but there, where Jacob dreamed of a ladder ascending to the heavens. Shiloh, where the Arc of the Covenant that held the Ten Commandments for 10th century. Sorry, for centuries. That’s what happened in Shiloh.
Thanks to you, Mr. President, these areas in so many others that for millennia have been etched in the soul of the Jewish people and as far the imaginations of millions of people around the world and across the world, these areas will now be recognized by the United States as a permanent part of the Jewish State. Mr. President, because of this historic recognition and because I believe your Peace Plan strikes the right balance where other plans have failed, I’ve agreed to negotiate peace with the Palestinians on the basis of your Peace Plan. It’s a great plan for Israel. It’s a great plan for peace. Frankly, Mr. President, given all that you’ve already done for Israel, I’m not surprised. You have been the greatest friend that Israel has ever had in the White House. Frankly, though we’ve had some great outstanding friends in these halls, it’s not even close. You’re a stark decisions to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, to recognize Israel sovereignty over the Golan Heights, to reaffirm Israel’s legal claims in Judea and Sumeria, to stand up to Iran, to pull out of that dangerous Iran deal, to confront… Confront is not the word. To eliminate Qasem Soleimani. To support and encourage unbelievable cooperation between Israel and the United States in the military and strategic and intelligence fields, all this bare Testament to the friendship and depth of your leadership and commitment to Israel.
From our very first meeting here in the White House three years ago, you repeatedly made clear your commitment to help Israel achieve peace with the Palestinians and peace with the rest of the Arab world. Mr. President, I share that commitment and I look forward to working with you to achieve a peace that will protect Israel’s security, provide the Palestinians with dignity and their own national life and improve Israel’s relations with the Arab world. Your Peace Plan advances all these goals.
First, it addresses the root cause of the conflict, by insisting that the Palestinians will finally have to recognize Israel as the Jewish State.
Second, it stipulates that Israel will retain security control in the entire area west of the Jordan River, thereby giving Israel a permanent eastern border, a permanent eastern border to defend ourselves across our longest border. This is something we’ve longed to have. We now have such a recognized boundaries. Third, your plan calls for Hamas to be disarmed and for Gaza to be demilitarized.
Fourth, it makes clear that the Palestinian refugee problem must be solved outside the state of Israel.
Fifth, it calls for our ancient capital Jerusalem to remain united under Israel’s sovereignty and of course ensures that religious sites remain accessible to all faiths and it maintains the status quo on the temple Mount.
Six, your plan does not uproot anyone from their homes, Israelis and Palestinians alike. Instead, it proposes innovative solutions, whereby Israeli’s will be connected to Israel and whereby Palestinians will also be connected to one another. This is that helps if you have these real estate people. They can come up with things normal human beings don’t think about and they have.
Mr. President, Israel wants the Palestinians to have a better life. We want them to have a future of national dignity, prosperity, and hope. Your Peace Plan offers the Palestinian’s such a future. Your Peace Plan offers the Palestinians a pathway to a future state. I know that it may take them a very long time to reach the end of that path. It may even take them a very long time to get to the beginning of that path, but if the Palestinians are genuinely prepared to take that path, if they’re genuinely prepared to make peace with the Jewish State, and if they agree to abide by all the conditions you have put forward in your plan, Israel will be there. Israel would be prepared to negotiate peace right away.
Regardless of the Palestinian decision, Israel will preserve the path of peace in the coming years. For at least four years, Israel will maintain the status quo in areas that your plan does not designate as being part of Israel in the future. At the same time, Israel will apply its laws to the Jordan Valley, to all the Jewish communities in Judea and Sumeria, and to other areas that your plan designates as part of Israel in which the United States has agreed to recognize as part of Israel. I like that.
This decision will protect Israel’s security, ensure Israel’s national interests and leave open the possibility of a political settlement with the Palestinians in the coming years. Mr. President, I hope the Palestinians embrace your vision of peace, embrace the plan that you and your team and us work so hard to achieve. I hope that they seize the opportunity offered by your sweeping economic plan. I read it. It takes enormous talent to reject $50 billion worth of investment. I know what that does to an economy. I know what it will do to Palestinian lives. I know what it will do to the youth of the region. I hope that the Palestinians embrace this and build with Israel a future of prosperity and peace.
I also hope that our other Arab neighbors embrace your vision and forge a path of reconciliation with Israel that can create for all of us a brilliant future. Mr. President, I want to congratulate your fantastic team. There’s no other word. You’re fantastic peace team for all their work.
Jason Greenblatt. Thank you, Jason, for the terrific job you did as America’s Peace Envoy for nearly three years. Avi Berkowitz, thank you for stepping up. Thank you Avi for stepping out from your important behind the roles scene, behind the scenes role, and ably working in those past few months to get this plan done. Ambassador David Friedman. Thank you, David. Thank you for your essential contribution to this effort and for the terrific job you do every day to strengthen the great alliance between Israel and America, and Jared Kushner. Without your wisdom, your persistence, your resolve, this day would’ve never come.
I know how much the Jewish future means to you and to your family. Well, Jared, today you have helped secure that future, the Jewish state owes you and it owes President Trump an eternal debt of gratitude.
Mr. President, on that historic day of May 14th, 1948, both David Ben Gurion and President Truman had a fateful decision to make. Many argued that Ben Gurion should not declare Israel’s independence. Many argued that President Truman should not recognize the Jewish state, but both leaders understood the magnitude of the hour. They seized the moment and they changed history. Like you, Mr. President, I understand the magnitude of this moment. With you, Mr. President, I’m prepared to seize the moment and change history.
I know that there’ll be opposition. There’s always opposition. I know there’ll be many obstacles along the way, much criticism. But we have an old Jewish saying. If not now, when and if not us, who? [foreign language 00:13:48]. Mr. President, your deal of the century is the opportunity of the century and rest assured Israel will not miss this opportunity. Mr. President Donald, Israel is blessed to have your friendship and your powerful leadership and Israel is blessed to have the friendship of the greatest power on earth, the United States of America. May God bless America, may God bless Israel and may God bless us all with security, prosperity, and peace. Thank you.
Well, thank you very much and thank you Jeanie. It is my profound honor to be the first President in history to attend the March for Life. We’re here for a very simple reason, to defend the right of every child born and unborn, to fulfill their God-given potential. For 47 years, Americans of all backgrounds have traveled from across the country to stand for life. And today as President of the United States, I am truly proud to stand with you. I want to welcome tens of thousands. This is a tremendous turnout. Tens of thousands of high school and college students who took long bus rides to be here in our Nation’s Capitol.
And to make you feel even better, there are tens of thousands of people outside that we passed on the way in. If anybody would like to give up their spot, we can work that out. We have a tremendous group of people outside, thousands and thousands wanting to get in. This is some great success. Young people are the heart of the March for Life and it’s your generation that is making America the pro-family, pro-life nation. The life movement is led by strong women, amazing faith leaders, and brave students who carry on the legacy of pioneers before us who fought to raise the conscience of our nation and uphold the rights of our citizens.
You embrace mothers with care and compassion. You are powered by prayer and motivated by pure, unselfish love. You are grateful and we are so grateful. These are incredible people. To be joined by Secretary Alex Azar and Kellyanne Conway. Thank you. And thanks also to Senators Mike Lee and James Lankford, who are here. James, Mike. Thank you, fellows. And Representatives, Steve Scalise, Chris Smith, Ralph Abraham, Warren Davidson, Bob Latta, John Joyce, Lloyd Smucker, Brian Fitzpatrick, and Brad Wenstrup. Thank you all. And I have to say, and I look at it, I see it exactly. We have many, many more politicians in the audience. But if you don’t mind, I won’t introduce them all.
All of us here today understand an eternal truth, every child is a precious and sacred gift from God. Together we must protect, cherish, and defend the dignity and the sanctity of every human life. When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of God’s creation. When we hold a newborn in our arms, we know the endless love that each child brings to a family. When we watch a child grow, we see the splendor that radiates from each human soul. One life changes the world. From my family, and I can tell you I send love and I send great, great love. And from the first day in office, I’ve taken historic action to support America’s families and to protect the unborn.
And during my first week in office, I reinstated and expanded the Mexico City policy and we issued a landmark pro-life rule to govern the use of title 10 taxpayer funding. I notified Congress that I would veto any legislation that weakens pro-life policies or that encourages the destruction of human life. At the United Nations, I made clear that global bureaucrats have no business attacking the sovereignty of nations that protect innocent life. Unborn children have never had a stronger defender in the White House. And as the Bible tells us, each person is wonderfully made. We’ve taken decisive action to protect the religious liberty. So important. Religious liberty has been under attack all over the world and frankly very strongly attacked in our nation.
You see it better than anyone, but we are stopping it and we’re taking care of doctors, nurses, teachers and groups like the Little Sisters of the Poor. We are preserving faith-based adoption and to uphold our founding documents. We have confirmed 187 federal judges who apply the Constitution as written, including two phenomenal Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We are protecting pro-life students’ right to free speech on college campuses. And if universities want federal taxpayer dollars, then they must uphold your 1st Amendment right to speak your mind. And if they don’t, they pay a very big financial penalty, which they will not be willing to pay.
Sadly, the far left is actively working to erase our God-given rights. Shut down faith-based charities, ban religious believers from the public square, and silence Americans who believe in the sanctity of life. They are coming after me because I am fighting for you and we are fighting for those who have no voice and we will win because we know how to win. We all know how to win. We all know how to win. You’ve been winning for a long time. You’ve been winning for a long time. Together we are the voice for the voiceless. When it comes to abortion, Democrats … And you know this. You’ve seen what’s happened. Democrats have embraced the most radical and extreme positions taken and seen in this country for years and decades and you could even say for centuries.
Nearly every top Democrat in Congress now supports taxpayer-funded abortion all the way up until the moment of birth. Last year, lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb right up until delivery. Then we had the case of the Democrat Governor in the state of Virginia, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and we love the Commonwealth of Virginia. But what is going on in Virginia? What is going on? The Governor stated that he would execute a baby after birth. You remember that. Senate Democrats even blocked legislation that would give medical care to babies who survive attempted abortions.
And that’s why I’ve called on Congress, two of our great senators here, so many of our Congressman here. I called upon them to defend the dignity of life and to pass legislation prohibiting late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in their mother’s womb. This year, the March for Life is celebrating the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which forever enshrined women’s rights to vote in the United States and given by the United States Constitution. Such a big event. Today, millions of extraordinary women across America are using the power of their votes to fight for the right and all of their rights as given in the Declaration of Independence, the right to life.
To all the women here today, your devotion and your leadership uplifts our entire nation and we thank you for that. The tens of thousands of Americans gathered today not only stand for life, it’s really here that they stand for it so proudly together and I want to thank everybody for that. You stand for life each and every day. You provide housing, education, jobs, and medical care to the women that you serve. You find loving families for children in need of a forever home. You host baby showers for expecting moms. You just make it your life’s mission to help spread God’s grace. And to all of the moms here today, we celebrate you and we declare that mothers are heroes. That’s true. Your strength, devotion, and drive is what powers our nation. And because of you, our country has been blessed with amazing souls who have changed the course of human history.
We cannot know what our citizens yet unborn will achieve, the dreams they will imagine, the masterpieces they will create, the discoveries they will make. But we know this, every life brings love into this world. Every child brings joy to a family. Every person is worth protecting. And above all, we know that every human soul is divine and every human life, born and unborn, is made in the holy image of Almighty God. Together we will defend this truth all across our magnificent land. We will set free the dreams of our people and with determined hope, we look forward to all of the blessings that will come from the beauty, talent, purpose, nobility, and grace of every American child. I want to thank you. This is a very special moment. It’s so great to represent you. I love you all. And I say with true passion, thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all. Thank you.
As long as I’m president of the United States Iran will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon. Good morning. I’m pleased to inform you, the American people should be extremely grateful and happy. No Americans were harmed in last night’s attack by the Iranian regime. We suffered no casualties. All of our soldiers are safe,, and only minimal damage was sustained at our military bases. Our great American forces are prepared for anything. Iran appears to be standing down, which is a good thing for all parties concerned and a very good thing for the world. No American or Iraqi lives were lost because of the precautions taken, the dispersal of forces, and an early warning system that worked very well.
I salute the incredible skill and courage of America’s men and women in uniform. For far too long, all the way back to 1979 to be exact, nations have tolerated Iran’s destructive, and destabilizing behavior in the middle East and beyond. Those days are over. Iran has been the leading sponsor of terrorism, and their pursuit of nuclear weapons threatens the civilized world. We will never let that happen. Last week, we took decisive action to stop a ruthless terrorist from threatening American lives. At my direction, the United States military eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Quasem Soleimani. As the head of the Quds force, Soleimani was personally responsible for some of the absolutely worst atrocities.
He trained terrorists armies, including Hezbollah, launching terrorist strikes against civilian targets. He fueled bloody civil Wars all across the region. He viciously wounded, and murdered thousands of US troops, including the planting of roadside bombs that may him and dismember their victims. Soleimani directed the recent attacks on US personnel in Iraq, that badly wounded for service members, and killed one American, and he orchestrated the violent assault on the US Embassy in Baghdad. In recent days, he was planning new attacks on American targets, but we stopped him.
Soleimani’s hands were drenched in both American and Iranian blood. He should have been terminated long ago. By removing Soleimani, we have sent a powerful message to terrorists. If you value your own life, you will not threaten the lives of our people. As we continue to evaluate options in response to Iranian aggression, the United States will immediately impose additional punishing economic sanctions on the Iranian regime. These powerful sanctions will remain until Iran changes it’s behavior. In recent months alone Iran’s sea ships in international waters fired an unprovoked strike on Saudi Arabia, and shot down to US drones. Iran’s hostilities substantially increased after the foolish Iran nuclear deal was signed in 2013, and they were given $150 billion not to mention $1.8 billion in cash. Instead of saying thank you to the United States, they chanted death to America.
In fact, they chanted death to America the day the agreement was signed. Then Iran went on a terrorist spree, funded by the money from the deal, and created hell in Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The missiles fired last night at us, and our allies were paid for with the funds made available by the last administration. The regime also greatly tightened the reins on their own country. Even recently killing 1500 people, at the many protests that are taking place all throughout Iran. The very defective JCPOA expires shortly anyway, and gives a ran a clear and quick path to nuclear breakout.
Iran must abandon its nuclear ambitions and end its support for terrorism. The time has come for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia, and China to recognize this reality. They must now break away from the remnants of the Iran deal, or JCPOA, and we must all work together toward making a deal with Iran that makes the world a safer, and more peaceful place. We must also make a deal that allows Iran to thrive and prosper and take advantage of its enormous untapped potential. Iran can be a great country. Peace and stability cannot prevail in the Middle East as long as the Iran continues to foment violence, unrest, hatred and war. The civilized world, must send a clear and unified message to the Iranian regime. Your campaign of terror, murder, mayhem will not be tolerated any longer. It will not be allowed to go forward.
Today, I am going to ask NATO to become much more involved in the Middle East process. Over the last three years. Under my leadership, our economy is stronger than ever before, and America’s achieved energy independence. These historic accomplishments shades our strategic priorities. These are accomplishments that nobody thought were possible, and options in the Middle East became available. We are now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We are independent and we do not need Middle East oil. The American military has been completely rebuilt under my administration at a cost of two point $5 trillion. US armed forces are stronger than ever before.
Our missiles are big, powerful, accurate, lethal, and fast. Under construction, are many hypersonic missiles. The fact that we have this great military and equipment, however, does not mean we have to use it. We do not want to use it. American strength, both military, and economic is the best deterrent. Three months ago after destroying 100% of ISIS, and its territorial caliphate, we killed the savage leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi who is responsible for so much death, including the mass beheadings of Christians, Muslims, and all who stood in his way. He was a monster. al-Baghdadi was trying again to rebuild the ISIS caliphate and failed. Tens of thousands of ISIS fighters have been killed or captured during my administration.
ISIS is a natural enemy of Iran. The destruction of ISIS is good for Iran, and we should work together on this and other shared priorities. Finally, to the people and leaders of Iran, we want you to have a future and a great future, one that you deserve. One of prosperity at home, and harmony with the nations of the world. The United States is ready to embrace peace with all who seek it. I want to thank you, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Well, thank you very much and good afternoon. As president, my highest and most solemn duty is the defense of our nation and its citizens. Last night, at my direction, the United States military successfully executed a flawless precision strike that killed the number one terrorist anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani. Soleimani was plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated him. Under my leadership, America’s policy is unambiguous to terrorists who harm or intend to harm any American. We will find you, we will eliminate you. We will always protect our diplomats, service members, all Americans, and our allies.
For years, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its ruthless Quds Force, under Soleimani’s leadership, has targeted, injured and murdered hundreds of American civilians and servicemen. The recent attacks on US targets in Iraq, including rocket strikes that killed an American and injured four American servicemen very badly, as well as a violent assault on our embassy in Baghdad, were carried out at the direction of Soleimani.
Soleimani made the death of innocent people his sick passion, contributing to terrorist plots as far away as New Delhi and London. Today, we remember and honor the victims of Soleimani’s many atrocities and we take comfort in knowing that his reign of terror is over. Soleimani has been perpetrating acts of terror to destabilize the Middle East for the last 20 years. What the United States did yesterday should have been done long ago. A lot of lives would have been saved. Just recently, Soleimani led the brutal repression of protesters in Iran, where more than a thousand innocent civilians were tortured and killed by their own government.
We took the action last night to stop a war. We did not take the action to start a war. I have deep respect for the Iranian people. They are a remarkable people with an incredible heritage and unlimited potential. We do not seek regime change. However, the Iranian regime’s aggression in the region, including the use of proxy fighters to destabilize its neighbors must end and it must end now. The future belongs to the people of Iran, those who seek peaceful coexistence and cooperation, not the terrorist warlords, who plunder their nation to finance bloodshed abroad.
The United States has the best military by far anywhere in the world. We have the best intelligence in the world. If Americans anywhere are threatened, we have all of those targets already fully identified, and I am ready and prepared to take whatever action is necessary, and that in particular refers to Iran. Under my leadership, we have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, and recently American Special Operations Forces killed the terrorist leader known as al-Baghdadi. The world is a safer place without these monsters. America will always pursue the interests of good people, great people, great souls, while seeking peace, harmony, and friendship with all of the nations of the world. Thank you. God bless you, God bless our great military, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
…a lot of work on health care. We’re very successful at it. And so we’re going to be speaking to the great people of Florida and I think they’re very happy with the job we’re doing. Yeah?
Yeah. [crosstalk 00:02:01]
What?
[crosstalk 00:02:12].
Well, if you’re looking at the whistleblower’s complaint it’s totally inaccurate because the conversation that I had was absolutely perfect and most people that have read it say the same thing. The whistleblower never saw the conversation, he got his information, I guess, second or third hand he wrote something that was total fiction. And now when people see that they’re not happy.
Well, we’re looking at a lot of different things. China’s coming in next week, we’re going to have a meeting with them. We’ll see. But we’re doing very well. Some of the numbers, I think, are being affected by all of the nonsense, all of the politics going on in this country by the Democrats. I call them the “do nothing’s;” they do nothing for this country. They don’t care about this country, but the numbers really are looking very good going into the future. So, we’ll see. I have a lot of options on China, but if they don’t do what we want, we have tremendous, tremendous power.
[inaudible 00:03:19] What exactly did you hope Zelinsky would do about the [inaudible 00:03:26] phone call?
Well, I would think that if they were honest about it, that sort of major investigation into the bias, it’s a very simple answer. They should investigate the Biden’s because how does a company that’s newly formed and all these companies did you look at … and by the way, likewise, China just started an investigation into the Biden’s because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with with Ukraine.
So, I would say that president Zelinsky, if it were me, I would recommend that they start an investigation into the Biden’s because nobody has any doubt that they weren’t crooked. That was a crooked deal. 100%. He had no knowledge of energy, didn’t know the first thing about it. All of a sudden he’s getting $50,000 a month plus a lot of other things. Nobody has any doubt. And they got rid of a prosecutor who was a very tough prosecutor. They got rid of them. Now they’re trying to make it the opposite way, but they got rie- So, if I were the president, I would certainly recommend that of Ukraine.
I haven’t, but certainly something we can start thinking about because I’m sure that President Xi does not like being under that kind of scrutiny where billions of dollars is taken out of his country by a guy that just got kicked out of the Navy. He got kicked out of the Navy. All of the sudden he’s getting billions of dollars. You know what they call that? They call that a pay off.
Well, I leave that to the lawyers. I can say though, that Schiff has now been proven to be a liar. We’ve known it for three years because they’ve been trying to impeach for three years. He’s a lie- He’s just stone cold liar. So, I leave that to the lawyers. That’s up to them to decide. But the whole investigation is crumbling. Yeah?
[crosstalk 00:05:37] to get other work done. Could you still-
I can. Yeah, I can. I can.
[crosstalk 00:05:43] How?
I can.
We have a real problem. We’ve been hitting the Taliban very, very hard. And as far as I’m concerned, they still haven’t recovered from killing 12 people, one who happened to be a great American soldier from Puerto Rico and they still have not recovered and they probably never will.
No. But I read Mitch McConnell’s statement yesterday and he read my phone call and as you know, he put out his statement that said that was the most innocent phone call he’s read. And I spoke to him about it, too. He read my phone call with the President of Ukraine, Mitch McConnell. He said that was the most innocent phone call that I’ve read. I mean, give me a break. Anybody that reads it says the same thing. And the only people that don’t understand it is when they look at the false, fabricated, fraudulent statement made by shifty Schiffs.
Well, I think Biden is going down and I think his whole situation, because now you may very well find that there are many other countries that they scammed, just like they scammed China and Ukraine and basically who are they really scamming? The USA and it’s not good.
[crosstalk 00:07:20].
And that’s probably why China, for so many years, has had a sweetheart deal where China rips off the USA because they deal like people with Biden where they give their son a billion and a half dollars. And that’s probably why China has such a sweetheart deal that for so many years they’ve been ripping off our guns.
We’re looking at it. We’re looking at it very closely. It’s under study.
We’ll see. They want to talk and we’ll be talking to him, too. We’ll see.
I’m going to … Yes?
[crosstalk 00:08:09] Why did you recall the US ambassadors to Ukraine? Do you see a problem? Why did you recall them?
I heard very bad things about her and I don’t know if I recalled her or somebody recalled her, but I heard very, very bad things about it for a long period of time. Not good.
Thank you. I’ll see you in Florida. I’ll see you all in Florida.
Over the last five or six years, China’s made $500-billion. 500-billion. Ripped it out of the United States. And not only that, if you take a look, intellectual property theft, add that to it and add a lot of other things to it. So, somebody… Excuse me. Somebody had to do it. I am the chosen one. Somebody had to do it. So, I’m taking on China. I’m taking it on China on trade. And you know what? We’re winning because we’re the piggy bank. We’re the one that all these countries, including the European union, wants to rob and takes advantage of. But I’d need a letter from the attorney general
Mr. President. Taking America into a recession, is it worth it? And do Americans need to back that up?
So, the fake news of which many of you are members is trying to convince the public to have a recession. Let’s have a recession. The United States is doing phenomenally well, but one thing I have to do is economically take on China because China has been ripping us off for many years. President Clinton, President Bush, and President Obama and others should have done this long before me. My life would be much easier… Although I enjoy doing it, but my life would be much easier if I just said, “Let China continue to rip off the United States.” All right? It’d be much easier, but I can’t do that. We are winning against China. They’ve lost two and a half million jobs in a very short period of time. They want to make a deal. It’s got to be a deal that’s good for the United States where they want to make it deal. Probably, we will make a deal. But if I didn’t do that, and I’m not doing… Somebody said it’s Trump’s trade war. This isn’t my trade war. This is a trade war that should have taken place a long time ago by a lot of other presidents.
Over the last five or six years, China’s made $500-billion. 500 billion. Ripped it out of the United States. And not only that, if you take a look, intellectual property theft, add that to it and they had a lot of other things do it. So, somebody… Excuse me. Somebody had to do it. I am the chosen one. Somebody had to do it. So, I’m taking it on China. I’m taking on China on trade. And you know what? We’re winning. Because we’re the piggy bank. We’re the one that all these countries, including the European union, wants to Rob and takes advantage. European union, $200-billion. China, more than $500-billion.
Sorry. I was put here by people to do a great job and that’s what I’m doing. And nobody’s done a job like I’ve done. Now, would China rather wait for a little more than a year and try and get sleepy Joe Biden to negotiate with instead of President Trump? Maybe, but I don’t think so. You know why? They’re losing too many jobs too fast. They had the worst year in 27 years, but I think it was actually 52 or 54 years. It was the worst year they’ve had in a half a century, and that’s because of me. And I’m not proud of that. But you know what? They want to negotiate, sleepy Joe doesn’t have a clue. Sleepy Joe said, “Oh, China’s wonderful.” Well, China is wonderful for China, but I’m wonderful for the USA.
Well thank you very much, and thank you Gretchen. It’s great to be back in the incredible Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Great place. And this is my 13th visit to Pennsylvania during my administration, which is more than any other president to this point in the term. And I really love Pennsylvania, I went to school in Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. So we love this state, and I love the unions, and I love the workers. And you know, when I built buildings in New York, I built them exclusively with union, people don’t understand that. I was exclusive.
And in the last really great election, our election of 2016, you know, we did great with the union workers, great. But we didn’t do good with the leadership. The leadership said, “Well, we’ve always gone Democrat. Let’s keep going that way.” That didn’t work out too well for some of them, I want to tell you. I’ll tell you, and as Gretchen said, this would have never happened without me and us. This would have never happened. So I’m with you. I’m with you. Remember that.
And remember that Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania has the best numbers they’ve ever had in the history of the state, and that’s for a very good reason. And you know what that reason is? Hello, here I am. And I’m truly honored to be here with the amazing energy workers and construction workers. These are talented people, the craft workers who make America run and who make America proud. We’re proud again. We’re proud again.
And no one in the world does it better than you, nobody. Nobody does it better. There’s nobody in the world that does it. And we’re unleashing that power again like we’ve never seen before, I will say. And we are doing well, and we’re fighting against a lot of countries that have taken advantage of us for many, many years, but they’re not doing it so much anymore. And in a little period of time, they won’t be doing it at all anymore. They’ve taken advantage of this country.
Today we celebrate the revolution in American energy that’s helping make our economy the envy of the world. This shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, I did very well here. We did very well. How many points did we win by? Does anybody know? I’ll tell you. Isn’t it, I think 28 points, that’s a lot. That’s against a Democrat … or whatever.
It’s one of the single biggest construction projects in the nation and it made it possible and was possible by clean, affordable, all American natural gas. Powerful, clean, natural gas. And when the wind stops blowing, it doesn’t make any difference does it? Unlike like those big windmills that destroy everybody’s property values, kill all the birds. Someday the environmentalists are going to tell us what’s going on with that. And then all of a sudden it stops, the wind, and the televisions go off. And your wives and husbands say, “Darling, I want to watch Donald Trump on television tonight, but the wind stopped blowing and I can’t watch, there’s no electricity in the house, Darling.”.
Now we love natural gas, and we love a lot of other things too. Each of you has taken part in the largest investment in Pennsylvania history. It’s the largest investment in the history of Pennsylvania, in the history of our country, the money that’s being invested in your state right now. With your help, we’re not only unleashing American energy, we’re restoring the glory of American manufacturing, and we are reclaiming our noble heritage as a nation of builders again. A nation of builders.
I was a good builder, I built it, I love building. In fact, I’m going to take a tour of the site. They said, “Sir, we were going to do it before the speech, but we’re waiting for it to stop raining.” I said, “Don’t worry about the rain. Do we have umbrellas? Don’t worry about the rain.” Umbrellas work very well, especially when they are made in America.
So I don’t care, but we’re gonna take a tour afterwards. I’m going to speak to some of your union leaders to say, I hope you’re going to support Trump. Okay? And if they don’t vote them the hell out of office because they’re not doing their job, it’s true. Vote them out of office.
When completed, this facility will transform abundant natural gas, and we have a lot of it, fracked from Pennsylvania wells, which they never would have allowed you to take if I weren’t president. If my opponent won, this would be a lot of nice new structures outside, I guess you would have stopped long ago. You would have stopped construction before it started too much. But I was talking to Gretchen, they would’ve never gotten the approvals to do what’s needed to fuel these plans. That wouldn’t have been good, so probably they wouldn’t have started, but if they would have started, it would have been stopped. But they put it into plastic through a process known as cracking. That raw material will then be shipped all over the country and all over the world to be fashioned into more products stamped with that very beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” Right? Made in the USA. Beautiful.
That is a beautiful phrase. Getting this massive job done right, has required more than 1,500 pieces of heavy equipment, one of the largest cranes anywhere in the world. I look forward to seeing it, I love cranes. I love trucks of all types. Even when I was a little boy at four years old, my mother would say, “You love the trucks.” I do. I always loved trucks, I still do, nothing changes. Sometimes, you know, you might become president, but nothing changes, I still love trucks. Especially when I look at the largest crane in the world, that’s very cool. Do you think I’ll get to operate it? I don’t know. We’ll put the media on it and I’ll give then a little ride. Right?
And you have thousands of tons of concrete, aluminum, and steel and nearly 6,000 of the strongest, toughest, and most talented workers anywhere on earth. It’s true. I know. It was the Trump administration that made it possible, no one else. Without us, you would never have been able to do this. I want to thank all of our great union members, the boiler makers, carpenters, cement finishers, electricians, iron workers, laborers, millwrights, operators, plumbers, painters, steam fitters, I know them well.
And a group that I’ve used more than anybody that’s ever run for office times a thousand. Because in New York City they would drive those cement trucks up to my building, and those trucks were always on time, and sometimes they were lined up for six blocks when I was doing different things. Even when I was doing the Wollman Rink the city couldn’t build, it took them nine years, they had no idea what they were doing. And I had that whole, big, about 70,000 feet. It’s like a massive office floor, bigger than an office. Look, we did it all in one day and the trucks were lined up from Central Park all the way back into Harlem. And they did it all in one day.
That pour, it was called a contiguous pour, the city used to build little pieces, a little piece here, a little piece there, little piece here, little piece there. A few years later, a little piece here. Then they had pipes underneath, and the pipes were made out of copper. And during the evening things would happen, like the copper would be stolen because it was very valuable. So they’d have a little piece with copper and then the rest of the pipe they’d lay and they’d get ready to pour, and they’d leave and everybody would steal the copper. So they’d … this took place for … I guess from seven to nine years, nobody actually knows, nobody wants to talk about it. But those trucks were operated incredibly well and I never missed a delivery and it’s called the teamsters.
I also wanna thank Bechtel, a real incredible company. We talk about the great builders of the world, President Jack Future. Where is he? Where is he? Jack? Where is Jack? Jack? What a great job you’ve done, Jack. Some big ones. Think of it this way, Jack, if we don’t win, you won’t be doing anything in this country. And you know the world follows us, you see that. The world follows us. And it won’t be so good. But you and I are friends and you’re going to have a lot of work to do, I think Jack, a lot of work. Thank you, Jack. Great job. Jack has done an incredible job. That’s an incredible company. Incredible. They’re incredible builders.
And the Secretary Treasurer of North America is building trades unions, Brent Booker, where’s Brent? Brent, thank you, great job. Young guy. You’re so young, Brent. How the hell did you get that job? Man.
We’re honored to be joined by two leaders who truly have the backs of American workers. They’ve become friends of mine, they do such an incredible job. They break up the roadblocks. We have a lot of roadblocks in this country where you have … a little clause can stop a project, a little clause can stop it for years. And we break up those little clauses, we break them up fast. Energy Secretary Rick Perry. Where’s Rick? Rick. Thank you, Rick. Another great guy. I had to compete with him. You know, he wanted to be president. He was tough, he was nasty. Man. He was nasty. But then he said, “I want to do something great”, and you have been incredible. He ran Texas for like 14 years. And he did it well and now he’s running a little thing called energy and nobody’s ever done it better. Thank you, Rick, very much. Great job.
And a man who has been incredible in every way. You know, EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, you’ve heard a lot of horror stories where nothing can get done, nothing gets passed. It takes years, and years, and years to get a simple permit. It can take 20, 21 years to get a road before they reject it. How about this? They go 20 years, 21 years in certain cases for a highway or road, not even a highway. At the end of the 21st year they vote to reject it. How would you like to be, you’re a young person, you’re starting out, and you’re all excited about this project, and it starts off as being a simple straight road. And then it ends up being a total catastrophe. Because of nesting and lots of other things that we can take care of. And it’s 20 years later, and then they reject it. You’ve devoted half of your working life to a rejection. Happened to many people. And we have a man that knows how to break it up, but he’s also a great lover of the environment, EPA Administrator, Andrew Wheeler. He’s done an incredible job. Andrew, great job, Andre. Really great job.
And I also want to recognize some of my great friends that have helped me so much. Congressman John Joyce. John? John? Where is John? John. John, usually you’re in the front row, I can’t believe this. I guess you got shut out by the unions. Thank you John. Fantastic job, John Joyce. Been a great friend, a great friend of all of us.
Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, Michael Turzai. Michael Turzai. Thank you, Michael, great job. Thank you. Good to see you, Michael. Michael Turzai. Great name in this state, I’ll tell you, for a long time. How long has it been, Michael, you’ve been there a long time. How long? Okay, good luck. Not that long. Thank you Mike.
And one of my good friends from Beaver County, David Urban. David. David, where’s David? David, thank you, David. Great football player, great athlete. And he was a Trump supporter, he liked Trump. And when he liked Trump, nobody was going to get in his way. Right, David? Thank you. Thank you. How are we doing in this state, David? We looking good? Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. I think we’re looking very good. I think we’re looking good all over in Ohio, in North Carolina and South Carolina, Florida. We just got numbers in Florida. We’re looking fantastically good.
Now, you know, sometimes … And they do, they do, they say “Donald Trump”. Can you imagine if I got a fair press? I mean, we’re leading without it, can you imagine if these people treated me fairly? The election would be over. Have they ever called off an election before? Just said, “Look, just … let’s go, go on, four more years.”
Yeah. And then you want to really drive them crazy, go to hashtag third term, hashtag fourth term. You’ll drive them totally crazy. I mean, you have one guy on television, I’m telling you he’s not leaving. He’s going to win. And then he’s not leaving. So in 2024 he won’t leave, I’m telling you, this is a serious person. These people have gone stone cold crazy.
And we’re grateful, especially to chairman of Royal Dutch Shell. That’s big stuff, folks. You know, I’m a business guy, When I hear Royal Dutch Shell, until I became president, that was like a big deal. But now I don’t feel it the same. Once you’re president, nothing seems big. Right? Chad Holiday. Where’s Chad? Chad understands. That’s a big deal, Chad. And thank you for coming. That’s a big deal. You don’t get any bigger. It’s an incredible company.
Shell’s US president, you just met her and you know her, everybody knows her. And she’s got a lot of other things in store, and she’s thanked me for what we’ve done here, but I said, “Forget this. We’ve got a lot of jobs. Let’s do a couple of more fast. Do them fast, we’ll get your fast approvals,” and you may get rejected. You know, if it’s not going to be environmentally good, environmentally sound, if something’s going to be wrong, but we’re not going to take 20 years to reject you like they did with the pipelines. Doesn’t matter, I approved them, but that’s okay. So we have pipe … Oh. We’ve got plenty of pipeline folks here, don’t we? Ah, I’d say.
Hey. You know, that’s a bigger hand than we got from the Teamsters, you believe that? Now, but you know they did that with the pipelines, right? Keystone XL, they did it with the pipelines. Dakota Access Pipeline, we’re building pipelines, and if we get the pipelines approved then you better work. The EPA is working right now to get them approved and Texas said, “If we can do, we can increase our … we can increase,” we’re now the largest in the world in energy by far.
But if we get those approved, Andrew, I hope Andrew’s listening, EPA, Andrew, you know what I’m saying, right? If we get them approved in Texas fast, they said it will take 18 years. I said, “Could you do it in about a month?” If we get the … Oh look at those pipeline guys, they’re so happy. That’s a lot of jobs. But Andrew, if we get them approved fast, we can increase our entire output. Texas is so big and is bigger, it turned out to be much bigger. I also got you ANWR in Alaska, which may be bigger than everything. And they couldn’t get it. Ronald Reagan couldn’t get it, no president could get it, and I got it approved and we’re all set. And so Andrew in Texas, if you can get those pipelines going, you will be so happy. We’ll have dinner with your family. I’ll tell them how great you were. Okay, EPA. Thank you, Andrew.
So I want to … I want to thank though Gretchen, she’s been fantastic. I also want to thank Vice President of Pennsylvania Chemicals, Hillary Mercer. I want to thank you very much for investing in the people of Pennsylvania. Hillary? Where’s Hillary? Thank you, Hillary. You’re investing in the people of Pennsylvania, so that’s a guarantee, as far as I’m concerned.
[inaudible 00:21:15] America greatness was forged and fueled and won by the extraordinary workers of this region. This region is an incredible region. Pennsylvania steel raised the skyscrapers that built our cities, and by the way, steel, steel was dead. Your business was dead. Okay? I don’t want to be overly crude. Your business was dead. And I put a little thing called a 25% tariff on all of the dump steel all over the country, and now your business is thriving. Probably there’s few businesses that have gone proportionately up like steel and aluminum. We did it with aluminum too, but they are doing well, 25% and 10% on aluminum.
… doing well, 25% and 10% on aluminum, and they still dump, but now the United States takes in billions of dollars, and the dumping is much less, and the steel companies are thriving again. We have to have a steel industry. We need steel for defense. What are we going to do? We have a little bit of a problem. We have a little bit of a conflict. We’ll say, “Listen, China, could you do us a favor? We need to help. All our steel mills are closed, Oh, dammit. Could you send us some steel, please? We don’t make seal anymore.”.
Well, we make it now, and I’ll tell you what, those steel mills, US Steel and all of them, all of them, they’re expanding all over the place. New mills, new expansions. We didn’t have a new mill built in 30 years, and now we have many of them going up. Many car plants, they’re coming in from Japan. I told Prime Minister Abe, great guy. I said, listen, we have a massive deficit with Japan. They send thousands and thousands, millions of cars, we send them wheat. Wheat. That’s not a good deal.
And they don’t even want our wheat. They do it because they want us to at least feel that we’re okay. You know, they do it to make us feel good, but the deficit is massive, which changing rapidly. But what they’re doing is they’re buying a lot of our stuff, including our military equipment. They are building car plants now in the United States, in Michigan, in Pennsylvania, many, many of the Japanese car companies are coming over and building car plants in the United States. It doesn’t fully do the trip, but it helps. And those deficits will start coming down very substantially, but we’re losing 78 billion. For many years, we’re losing billions and billions with these countries, and frankly, the countries that we do the worst with are the allies, our allies. Does that make sense to you? Our allies take advantage of us far greater than our enemies, and someday I’m going to explain that to a lot of people.
Pennsylvania miners. Do we love our miners? They lit up our towns and powered our industries, and Pennsylvania factory workers made the American brand into the universal symbol of excellence all around the world, all over. But in recent decades, the loyalty of Pennsylvania workers was repaid only with betrayal. They betrayed you. They let your companies move to Mexico, to Canada, to China, to many other places. We ended up with no income and massive unemployment. Well, right now our employment has reached the lowest level that it’s seen since the 1960s and we’ll soon be breaking that record, I predict.
And you’ve heard me say it, but now it’s even better. Numbers just came out. African American unemployment, lowest in history, Asian American, Hispanic American, lowest in the history of our country. Women lowest in 70 years. Sorry women, I let you down again. Think of it, lowest in 70 years, and I have to apologize to women, but soon we’re going to have that. That will be a record very soon. We’re very close to saying lowest in history for women unemployment. Today we have more workers working in the United States, almost 160 million, than at any time in the history of our country. Think of that. That’s a hell of a stat. The political class in Washington gutted your factories with horrendous trade deals, horrible. NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever. By the way, World Trade Organization, it made China, China made themselves, they did a good job, but they ripped off our country for years, and with our money and World Trade Organization backing, and then they took advantage of the rules of the World Trade Organization, and I’m being nice when I say took advantage. Much more than took advantage.
They went up like a rocket ship. They were flat lined for a hundred years, and then one day World Trade Organization, a terrible move, and we were losing all our cases until I came along. We were losing all our cases in the World Trade Organization. Almost every case were lost, lost, lost. They thought we were stupid. They were the ones ruling. And then I came along. Now we’re winning a lot of cases, because they know that they’re not on very solid ground. We will leave if we have to, and all of a sudden we’re winning a lot of cases. We’re winning most of our cases, and it’s only because of attitude, because we know that they have been screwing us for years, and it’s not going to happen any longer. They get it, they get it. So they’re giving us victories. They’re giving us victories.
I’d like to use a different word, but there’s no word that’s quite as … Right? There’s no word that’s quite as descriptive. I’d like to, but that’s exactly what they were doing. They were taking advantage of us for years and years, and now they understand that if it’s not going to be fair, it’s not going to be at all. We don’t need it, we don’t need it. So a lot of good things, and I think we will, I think they will treat us fairly. I mean the concept should work, but people have taken advantage. Like for instance, they view certain countries like China, India, many countries for a long time, they viewed them as they’re growing, right? They’re growing nations. We’re a mature nation. They’re growing. These are growing nations. Well, they’ve grown, and they had tremendous advantages, but we’re not letting that happen anymore, okay? We’re not letting that happen anymore.
Everybody’s growing but us. They’re all growing nations. We have to work with them, but nobody ever wants to work with the United States. It’s a disgrace. But it’s changing, and it’s changing fast, and I think it’s the primary reason probably that I ran for president. I’d see these factories all over the country, and I’d see them empty, and I’d see the jobs going to other countries, and I just never understood why the politicians didn’t do anything about it. But now we’re doing it. And by the way, the USMCA, that’s Mexico and Canada, that deal is a fantastic deal, and it’s a great deal for your unions, too. We have the farmers, the unions, the manufacturers. It’s good for everybody. We have to get the Democrats to put it up for a vote, and most Democrats are going to vote for it, too. They’re under a lot of pressure to vote for it, but that replaces one of the worst trade deals ever made, which is NAFTA.
But I watched them crush your industries with taxes and regulations, and they targeted American energy for total destruction. You weren’t going to be able to take anything out. That’s our gold. That’s gold underneath their feet, and they weren’t going to allow it to happen. The Paris Accord, the Paris Accord was good for other countries, wasn’t good for us. All the while they expected you to stay on the sidelines, silence your voices, and surrender the future of our nation, and you didn’t do it, but you didn’t have the right people representing you, so it didn’t matter. But when you finally had the right person, the person that really cared … This thing is costing me a fortune, being president. Somebody said, “Oh, he might’ve rented a room to a man from Saudi Arabia for $500.” What about the 5 billion that I’ll lose?
It’s probably gonna cost me, including upside downside lawyers, because every day they sue me for something. These are the most litigious people. It’s probably costing me from three to 5 billion for the privilege of being, and I couldn’t care less. I don’t care. You know, if you’re wealthy, it doesn’t matter. I just want to do a great job. That’s why I don’t care. I want to do the right job. When this great building company comes here, wants to build a plant, I want to make it easy for them, not hard for them. I’m not jealous of them. I couldn’t care less, [Bechtel 00:00:30:36]. I’m not jealous of them.
I got sued on a thing called emoluments. Emoluments, you ever hear the word? Nobody ever heard of it before. They went back. Now nobody looks at Obama getting $60 million for a book. That’s okay, even though nobody in history ever got that much money for a book. Obama got 60. Think of it, $60 million for a book. But with me, it’s everything. Emoluments. Nobody knows what it is. Here’s the good news. Last month I just won two cases on emoluments, and the judge was scolding of the other side. And what it is, is presidential harassment, because this thing is costing me a fortune and I love it. Okay? I love it because I’m making the lives of other people much, much better.
Each of you here today is living proof that America never surrenders. We don’t surrender. And we were in bad shape. This area was in really bad shape, and now you look outside and you say, that’s like the eighth wonder of the world. Under my administration, we’re fighting back, and we’re winning because we are truly and finally putting America first. After years of building up foreign countries, we are finally building up our country. Think of it, we protect the border of South Korea, but we don’t protect our own border. But now we are and the wall is being built. We won that case two weeks ago. We won that case. The wall is being … We’re going to have a lot of it. We’re going to have anywhere from 400 to 500 miles built by the end of next year. We’re building a lot of wall, and we need it. We need it. We want people to come into our country. They have to come in legally, and we want them to come in through merit. The last administration tried to shut down Pennsylvania coal and Pennsylvania fracking. If they got in, your fracking is gone. Your coal is gone. You guys, I don’t know what the hell you going to do. You don’t want to make widgets, right? Do you want to learn how to make a computer, a little tiny piece of stuff you put it with those big, beautiful hands of yours?
Take these big hands, he’s going to take this little tiny part. He’s going to go home. “Alice, this is a tough job.” No, you want to make steel, and you want to dig coal, and that’s what you want to do. I was in West Virginia when Hillary made that terrible statement that she wants to close up all of the coal. She forgot in three weeks she was going to West Virginia. Remember, she wanted to close up all coal. She was in an area where they didn’t do the coal, and she said, “I look forward to closing up all coal. It’s going to be closed. Steel is going to be in big trouble.” She forgot, three weeks she was going to West Virginia. That didn’t work out. I want that one by 42 points, 42 points, West Virginia.
I actually think this time we have a good chance of winning Virginia, which is a tough one to win, because you know you have some people there that maybe don’t agree with us, but I think we have a really good chance of Virginia, too, which is something that hasn’t been won by a Republican in a long time. But it’s common sense, and a lot of this is, you know, they say politics, politics, great politics is common sense. But on my first day in office, I ended the war on American energy, and that’s common sense, I think. That’s common sense. We’re lucky. You go to places like China, they don’t have oil and gas. They don’t have it under there. They have to go buy it, and then they devalue their currency and manipulate their currency, and that’s cost them a fortune to go out and buy it.
They hurt themselves in the long run, but they’re devaluing all over the place as others are. But we have this unbelievable, the greatest in the world. We have the greatest resources, which really came about over the last few years. Nobody knew this. Fracking made it possible. Other new technologies made it possible, and now we’re the number one. Think of it, as I said, the number one energy producer in the world. I’m so proud of that, because we wouldn’t have been number five. They were going to close it up. They were going to close it up, and it’s common sense. They wanted to take away our wealth. That’s what the Paris Accord would have done, would have taken away our wealth. It wasn’t for us. It was good for others. It wasn’t for us. We had to pay money to other countries that are very substantial countries. They wanted to take away your wealth. They didn’t want you to drill. They didn’t want you to frack. They didn’t want you to do steel. They wanted to take away your wealth. . Now the press will try and spin that differently, but I’m right.
The fake news. That’s a lot of people back there for, for 11 o’clock speeches. That’s a lot of people. It’s like the Academy Awards during the day. It used to be. The Academy Awards is on hard times now. You know that. Nobody wants to watch it. You know why? Because they started taking us on. Everyone got tired of it. It’s amazing. That used to be second after the Super Bowl, and then all of a sudden, now it’s just another show, because people got tired of people getting up and making fools of themselves and disrespecting the people in this room and the people that won the election in 2016.
And the people that won the Senate without me on the ticket in 2018, they never say that. We won the Senate. That’s why we’ll have appointed within two months 179 federal judges and two Supreme Court judges. Think of that. 179. But they don’t say we want the Senate. They say we lost the House, and you know, there are a lot of people running for the house. It’s hard for me to campaign, but almost everybody I campaigned for won. We had tremendous records in ’18, and I wasn’t running. There’s a big difference. In 2020 we’re running, so you better get out there and make sure we win.
We have a record that nobody’s ever had. Remember when I was running, I was saying, “We’re going to do this. We’re going to create jobs.” Everyone, big yawn. You know, we like him. Let’s give him a shot. What do we have to lose, right? I said that with African Americans, they had the worst crime rates, the worst education, the worst everything. They had like 10 things. I’m reading it off a list. I looked, I said, “What the hell do you have to lose?” But I really sort of said the same thing to everybody, because our country wasn’t doing well with Biden and Obama, wasn’t doing well, and they were pouring money in, pouring, pouring money in, and it wasn’t doing well. Even now, you see the interest rates, I’m paying a normalized interest rate. We should be paying less, frankly.
This guy’s made a big mistake. He’s made a big mistake. The head of the Fed. That was another beauty that I chose, but even with that, we’re paying a normalized interest rate. The nice thing is you get some interest from the bank. With President Obama, he was paying nothing. It’s easy to make money when you’re paying nothing. You’re paying zero. Easy. But even with that, our economy’s roaring, and his wasn’t. It was the weakest economy since the Great Depression, the weakest up. So we have it going. Our country now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world.
Every time a prime minister, president, king, queen, dictator, whatever they may be. Some are sort of mutual. Some you have presidents and prime ministers who are actually dictators, but they come in and they see me at the Oval Office. They always say, almost everybody, congratulations on your incredible economy. What you’ve done is incredible. The tax cuts, the regulation cuts, all of the things we’ve done, and they’re all saying that they want to try and copy us. It’s not easy to copy us. A part of the reason it’s not easy is because of the people like this all over the country, the people in this room. You are incredible people. That was an incredible [inaudible 00:17:28]. Thank you.
Incredible people. Incredible people. And here in the Appalachian region where the Marcellus and Utica shale formations generate one third of American natural gas, think of that. You’ve been sitting on this for a long time, and yet look at the numbers. Look at the way you lived, because you never had anybody that wanted to take advantage of it, but now we’re taking advantage of it. You’re sitting on gold, and we’re taking advantage of it, and your future has never looked brighter or better. It’s so great that you stayed, because you suffered. This whole region, Appalachia. It just suffered, this whole region, with great people, the greatest people, and you suffered.
When this plant opens, 600 American workers will get the full time jobs with quality healthcare, pensions, and great pay to support a family, and you have, I said before, almost 2000 construction workers, and you’re going to another plant, because we’re going to talk to Bechtel after this, and we’re talking to Shell. When you got the boss from Shell, you people don’t realize, that’s a big deal. I don’t know where the hell he comes from. Where are you based? It’s not in this country. Hey, how about moving Shell to the United States?
We’re ready if you are. Just let me know. But they have their big USA division, but that that’s a great company. It’s a big deal, and that you’re here is a big deal. That’s a big deal to me, and it’s a big deal to everybody in this room. You have the top man, top man at Shell. But this is just the beginning. My administration is clearly the way for other massive multibillion dollar investments. We just did one in Louisiana. It’s a $10 billion plant. There’s more pipes in that plant that I’ve ever seen in my life. There’s more plant. You know that. LNG, it’s an LNG plant, $10 billion, and it’s totally sold out. They sell it like you rent office space. Can you believe it? It’s all sold out.
All over the world, people have used it, and you haven’t had a plant like that built in this country really ever, because there’s never been anything that big, but you didn’t build plants like that, because environmentally they weren’t letting you. And yet environmentally it’s so good what they’ve done and what they can build today. Investments that could bring more than 100,000 new jobs to this region are now being looked at very seriously, and I think the hundred thousand dollars, I really do, I feel the 100,000 jobs, Andrew, is going to be a very low number. I think you’re going to have many more. This is an incredible region. You’re sitting on top of something special. It’s all fueled by the greatest treasure on the planet, American energy, and we don’t want people taking that away from us. Two more companies have recently proposed a $10 billion investment in the great state of Ohio, incredible state.
We have tens of billions of dollars’ worth of investments, and this is really good stuff that we’re now negotiating, but these two are in Ohio. The energy revolution is also creating new jobs in West Virginia, Mexico, Colorado, Texas, Kansas, Louisiana, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, all across our beautiful land. You have no idea what’s going on, including, as I said before, car companies. We didn’t make cars. Look, we lost 32% of our car companies to Mexico, before I got there, by the way. Now it’s very, very hard to do that anymore. Nobody’s going to be looking that way, I don’t think. And I want to thank Mexico, because the president now has been great, and he’s got 27,000 soldiers on our Southern border and on his border with Guatemala, keeping our borders safe. Our numbers are plummeting, the people coming in, all because the Democrats won’t approve fixing the loopholes of asylum. So I want to thank Mexico. It’s incredible. We have close-
I want to thank Mexico. It’s incredible. We have close to 27,000. Think of that. We never had three. I think we had about two and a half soldiers. One was sitting down all the time. We had nobody.
And don’t forget, the southern border is 2,000 miles from the Gulf to the Pacific. We have 27,000, and they’re doing a great job. They’re helping themselves, too, because they’re disrupting and really hurting the cartels. So much of that stuff is run illegally by the cartels, human trafficking, drugs, people. It’s terrible.
Mexico, I’ll tell you, they are so far… I hope they’re going to keep it up. I hope they’re going to keep it up. But they’ve been great, and 27,000 people. They wouldn’t have done that for any other president. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
With us today are a few of the hardworking Pennsylvania patriots who are making this comeback possible.
Jason Eckhart is the third generation of his family to work on these grounds, and he’s doing better than any of them. By the way, three years ago, you wouldn’t have said that. Three years ago, his father would say, “Hey, I had it made.” His grandparents would say, “We had it made.” Now he can look at them and say, “Dad, we have it made.”.
His father and grandfather worked for the zinc smelting company previously housed at this site. When that plant closed in 2014, 500 jobs disappeared, like magic. Remember President Obama, “You need magic to bring back manufacturing jobs. You need a magic wand.” Do you remember? “Not going to happen.” Well, so far, we’ve brought back 600,000 manufacturing jobs.
Jason never imagined he would get the chance to carry on his family’s legacy, but now he has. He is carrying it on, and he’s carrying it on proudly. He’s a great American. Jason? Where are you, Jason? Jason? Jason? Come on up, Jason. Come on, let’s get Jason up. Come on up. Jason. I’d like Jason to tell us what this great facility means to him and to his family. Thank you.
Thank you, Jason.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
It’s been amazing to see the transformation on this site from a 100-year-old zinc smelter to a state-of-the-art petrochem facility. I’m very proud to be part of Pennsylvania Chemicals, to redevelop this site, and create the jobs in Western Pennsylvania for all of you.
It’s very exciting to think about what we have to come, starting this place up and having jobs into the future for our families. As a native from this area, I’m from right here in Center Township, I can appreciate how much this means to the area. I’m really proud to be part of this and be proud of all you guys. Thanks.
Thank you, Jason. Great. Did you enjoy doing that, Jason? I think so. You had a big group of people back here that likes you a lot. They’re giving him a hard time back there, his friends. Thanks, Jason.
Heather Michaux grew up here in Beaver County, and has been working for Shell in other states for several years. Now she can raise her family right near her parents and loved ones, and actually be home, where she wants to be and where she belongs. Heather, please come up and tell us about your journey.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you.
For me, when Shell announced that we were going to be building a facility in Beaver County, I was in Texas, and I was so excited, but not just for me getting to further my career and move home; I was excited for all the possibilities that had opened up for my hometown. I was excited because I recognized the potential that a place like this has, for us to be able to hone our existing skills and to gain new ones too.
I knew that we, the hardworking people of Western Pennsylvania, and other places in the U.S. too, would now have this fresh opportunity and would take advantage of it. And that’s the opportunity that I see the thousands of you folks taking advantage of now, not only today, but we’re also creating something that is going to well outlive us by building this site. And I am really proud to be a part of that legacy, sir.
Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. She’ll be running for office soon. Fantastic job.
Samantha Polizotto was a single mom working full-time when she learned about process technology training programs at the local community college, funded by Shell. She became the first woman to graduate from that program, and she made the Dean’s List. That’s pretty good. Now she’s leading the way as one of the very first production operators hired here at Shell.
Samantha, please come up and say a few words. Please.
Growing up in Beaver County, I can recall people talking of the good old days when steel mills were running and, often, people were born and spent their whole lives in the same town. Local families had multiple generations working the same industry and, in many cases, the same companies. This was a fact for our parents, but with the fall of the steel mills in this area, it began to see a period of stagnation. Hardworking men and women in this area, full of pride, still lace up their work boots, driving by the vacant skeletons of the old mills and refineries, holding onto the hope that one day this area would see its former glory.
The announcement of Shell Pennsylvania Chemicals Plant seems to have kindled that spark within the community. It has provided an opportunity for steady employment for many different skilled tradesmen, emptying many of the local union halls.
As a young woman, this has also afforded me an incredible opportunity to come into the ground floor of an unprecedented project. In school, I chose a field far different than many of my female colleagues. Process technology is a focused area of studies around production and operations.
Predominantly male-dominated careers, I knew there would be challenges as I entered the workforce. Being a mother and a wife, I must balance my responsibilities at work and at home. The challenges I have faced have been softened by a network of support that has been given to me not only by my family, but also through the Community College of Beaver County, my coworkers, and now the culture of care at Shell. I am proud to play a role in this project, as it restores this area and makes Beaver County great again.
Thank you, Samantha. That was a great job. Thank you.
To help create more opportunities for workers like Jason, Heather, and Samantha, my administration started the Pledge to America’s Workers. Our partners are providing over 12 million training and enhanced career opportunities to American workers. My daughter Ivanka is working so hard on it. She’s done a great job. Twelve million people, so far, have been positively affected.
Today, I’m pleased to announce that Shell is signing the Pledge to America’s Workers to provide enhanced career opportunities. By the way, Shell, thank you. They’re providing career opportunities to 3,300 workers over five years, right here in Western Pennsylvania. That’s great. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. And thank you, Hilary, for the tremendous commitment that you’ve made. We really appreciate it. Fantastic job.
Under this administration, we live by two very simple words, Buy American. That’s what we want. I’m going to add something. Hire American. It’s about hiring American, buying American. It’s about America First. It’s about Make America Great Again. It’s about Keep America Great.
Despite all of this exceptional progress, however, some politicians in this country still want to keep America’s vast energy treasures buried deep underground, let other nations take advantage of our country. Not happening anymore. They see factories like this one not as a cause for celebration, but for condemnation. Democrats in Congress are pushing hard for the Green New Deal. How about that one? Green New Deal.
Boo.
Where it puts everybody in this room out of work, hate to tell you, and a lot more people. Everybody out of work. But I don’t want to speak badly about it. You know, you’ve heard me say this. I want to encourage them. That should be their platform.
I don’t want to do it too early. I did it very early with Pocahontas. I should have probably waited. She’s staging a comeback on Sleepy Joe. I don’t know who’s going to win, but we’ll have to hit Pocahontas very hard again if she does win. But she’s staging a little bit of a comeback. What a group, Pocahontas and Sleepy Joe. I don’t think they give a damn about Western Pennsylvania, do you?
No.
I don’t think so. And other radical plans to wipe out our coal. That’s what they want. They want to wipe out our oil. They want to wipe out our natural gas industries, while allowing other countries to steal our jobs. Virtually every leading Democrat has vowed to eliminate fossil fuels, obliterating millions of American jobs, devastating communities, and bankrupting factories, families, and senior citizens all across this region.
By the way, this is the only fuel that has the power for plants. When you have to steam up and you have to fuel up on these giant plants, these giant generators, these giant electrical factories, you need what you’re doing. You need this. It’s got the power. The other doesn’t have the power, certainly not yet, probably never will.
We’re not taking chances. We have the cleanest air and water we’ve ever had in our country right now, the cleanest we’ve ever had, and we’re going to keep it that way.
We’re never going to allow other countries and outside sources to take away our great wealth, because that’s what they want to do. They want to take away our wealth, take away our jobs. We’re not going to let it happen.
To see the destructive results of the far-left’s energy nightmare, just compare the enormous success here in Pennsylvania with the tremendous folly happening right across a line, a little line, in New York. Both states have vast energy reserves, but New York prohibits development while Pennsylvania welcomes it.
From 2010 to 2017, natural gas production plummeted by nearly 70% in New York, but it soared almost 1000% percent in Pennsylvania. And New York won’t allow us to build a pipeline across, because New York is sort of a long state, and we can’t have pipelines going across, helping a region that’s not a wealthy region at all. They have a lot of economic problems. People are leaving left and right.
We want to get it over to the waters. We want to get it over to the oceans. We want to get it up to New England, where they have the highest energy costs anywhere in the United States. We can’t get energy because New York doesn’t allow the pipelines to go through. That’s going to be very costly for New York, ultimately.
As a result, families in Pennsylvania shale country got more jobs, billions of dollars in royalty payments, and wages that are significantly higher compared to their neighbors just across the state line. Meanwhile, families in New York… I love New York. that’s where I’m from. Probably most of you don’t know that. That’s where I’m from. They’re burdened with more power outages and electricity rates, you never saw anything like this, that are much, much higher than neighboring states and than your state.
New York energy rates are through the roof. New England, through the roof. A lot of it has to do with the fact that we can’t get pipelines through New York. New York won’t let us. They won’t let us.
All New York likes to do is sue me. They like to sue me. They’re always suing. I said, “Which lawyer is handling that case?” No, they sue me for everything so they can try to stop us by any means possible.
The radical Left wants to do to America what they’ve done to New York, raise prices, kill jobs, and leave our nation less independent and far less secure. My vision is the exact opposite. We want to work with New York, and we want to help New York. They need jobs in New York so badly. You know, they talk about the environment. So you have the state line, and over here you have machinery fracking. And over here you have nothing, except poverty. Over here you have people driving new cars and nice cars, and over here you have cars that are 40 years old. Now, what does that have to do with the environment? It’s the same. It’s an artificial line.
I wonder what happens when they get down there. What happens? I just wonder, is New York losing its wealth? You know what I’m talking about, right? What happens when those lines go down and they can go in any direction now? The equipment is so incredible.
Hopefully, we can help New York. I want to help New York so much. We will never allow ourselves to be at the mercy of foreign energy suppliers. That’s what’s fighting us. They don’t want us to have great energy. They’ve made a fortune selling us energy.
You probably saw the Straits the other day. Very few American boats are there. They capture. Iran, I broke up that deal. That was a good thing to do. It’s a whole different country right now.
They’re capturing boats from other countries. They’re not taking our boats. One of the things that was brought up by the media, actually, and wisely and correctly brought out, we have very few boats going there anymore because we have our own oil and gas. We don’t need it from the Middle East anymore. That’s why we’re pursuing a future not only of energy independence… but not just words. You know, you’ve been hearing energy independence for years and years, and you’d hear it. We have real independence. But what we want now is not independence; we want American energy dominance. Dominance.
Instead of relying on foreign countries, we are now relying on American producers, and we are relying on American workers to build our own future right here on American soil. It’s time.
Together, we’re defending the oil and gas workers who light up our cities and uplift our communities. We’re fighting for the technicians and construction workers here in Beaver County who are building a powerful engine of American commerce. There’s no place like what you’re seeing right outside these doors. There is no place like it.
We’re here once again to stand up for the engineers and the factory workers who will shape the work of your hands into American-made products sold all over the world. That’s what’s going to happen. That’s what you’re producing.
And everyday patriots who make this all possible, you are the backbone of America, the absolute backbone, and you haven’t been given the honor of having that said by other people. But you are the backbone of this country. So true.
You are the ones who work hard, pay your taxes, build your neighborhoods, obey our laws, safeguard our values, raise up your children, make this land the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth. You are the ones who do it. We work with a lot of people, but you are there and you are doing it. You’ve always been loyal to America, and now you finally have a president of the United States who is loyal to you.
Our vision is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, pro-energy, and 100% pro-American. We’re taking care of our military, and we’re taking care of our vets. Veterans Choice, you’ve been hearing it about for 45 years. I got it approved. Veterans Choice. We’re taking care of our veterans. We’re taking care of our military like never, ever before. Because Americans can do anything, go anywhere, and outperform anyone. Nobody can beat us. Nothing can stop us, because winning is what Americans do. Winning is what we know best. We will keep winning, wining, winning.
I used to tell you the story about winning. I used to say that your great leaders would come to Washington and they would say, “President, we’re winning too much. We can’t take it anymore. The people of Pennsylvania cannot stand winning. We haven’t won for years and years, and now we’re winning too much. Mr. President, please, for the good of the people of Pennsylvania, stop winning. Stop creating all these jobs. Stop creating all this product. Please, sir. Please, stop winning.”.
I said to them, and I will say to them, “We’re never going to stop winning because nobody has ever won like what’s happened over the last couple of years. Nobody has ever won like you’re winning.” I’ve more than fulfilled my promises. Even they said, “He promised things, and he actually produced more than he promised.” That’s true. But we’re going to produce more and more.
I just want to thank everybody. With your help, factory floors across this land are once more crackling with life. Our steel mills are fired up and blazing bright. The assembly lines are roaring. Industry is booming. And the hearts of our workers, the American spirit, is soaring higher, stronger, freer, and greater than ever before.
I want to thank you all for giving this nation your very best, and your very best cannot be beaten. I want to thank you for filling America with pride. We are proud of you. We think you are just incredible, incredible people. It’s an honor for me to be with you in Pennsylvania.
Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless you.
(singing)
All right, everybody. Good afternoon. Thanks so much for watching News Now, which is a part of Fox 10-
It’s a true privilege to be back in the Great Commonwealth of Virginia. And, it’s a tremendous honor to stand on these historic grounds as the first President to address a joint session of the oldest lawmaking body in all of the Western Hemisphere, the Virginia General Assembly. Congratulations.
On this day 400 years ago, here on the shores of the James River, the first representative legislative assembly in the new world convened. By the devotion of generations of patriots, it has flourished throughout the ages, and now that proud tradition continues with all of you.
To every Virginian, and every legislator with us today, congratulations on four incredible centuries of history, heritage, and commitment to the righteous cause of American self-government. This is truly a momentous occasion.
I want to thank the governor of Virginia for inviting me to speak at this very important event, and with us this morning, our many distinguished guests and officials from across the Commonwealth, including Lieutenant Governor Justin Fairfax. Thank you very much.
Speaker, Kirk Cox. Thank you, Kirk. Thank you. Thank you, Kirk.
Senate Majority Leader, Tommy Norment. Thank you. Thank you. Tommy. Thank you.
And members of the host, and other federal, state, local and tribal leaders, all with us today. Thank you very much.
We’re also very thankful as well to have with us Secretary Ben Carson. Ben, thank you very much. Wherever you may be. Thank you, Ben.
And Acting Director, a person that you know very well, Acting Director Ken Cuccinelli. Spent a lot of time with you, folks, and has a lot of respect for you.
And the terrific people at the Department of the Interior and the National Park Service. I want to thank you all for being here with us. It’s a great honor.
I also want to recognize everyone at American Evolution and the Jamestown Settlement, the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, the Jamestown Rediscovery Project and Preservation Virginia. Thank you very much. What a great job you do. Thank you.
The fact is that each of you has helped protect and preserve our national treasures here at Jamestown, and it’s a great debt. We owe you a great, great debt. Thank you. What a job.
On this day in 1619, just a mile south of where we are gathered now, 22 newly elected members of the House of Burgesses assembled in a small wooden church. They were adventurers and explorers, farmers and planters, soldiers, scholars, and clergyman.
All had struggled. All had suffered, and all had sacrificed in pursuit of one wild and very improbable dream. They called that dream, Virginia.
It had been only 13 years since three small ships, the Susan Constant, the Godspeed, and the Discovery, set sail across the vast ocean. They carried 104 settlers to carve out a home on the edge of this uncharted continent.
They came from God and country. They came in search of opportunity and fortune, and they journeyed into the unknown with only meager supplies, long odds, and the power of their Christian faith.
Upon reaching Cape Henry at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay, in 1607 a long time ago, the first men of the Virginia company erected a cross upon the shore. They gave thanks to God and asked his blessing for their great undertaking. In the months and years ahead, they would dearly need it. The dangers were unparalleled.
The Jamestown settlers arrived in America amid one of the worst droughts in over seven centuries. Of 104 original colonists, 66 died by the year’s end. During the third winter, known as the starving time, a population of up to 500 settlers was reduced to 60.
By spring, those who remained were in search of whatever they could get to survive, and they were in dire trouble. They left Jamestown deserted. They just sailed away, never to come back. But they had not gone far down the James River when they encountered the answer to their prayers, ships bearing a year’s worth of supplies, and more than 300 new settlers.
As we can see today on this great anniversary, it would not be the last time that God looked out for Virginia. Together, the settlers forged what would become the timeless traits of the American character. They worked hard. They had courage and abundance, and a wealth of self-reliance. They strived mightily to turn a profit. They experimented with producing silk, corn, tobacco, and the very first Virginia wines.
At a prior settlement at Roanoke, there had been no survivors, none at all. But where others had typically perished, the Virginians were determined to succeed. They endured by the sweat of their labor, the aid of the Powhatan Indians, and the leadership of Captain John Smith.
As the years passed, ships bearing supplies and settlers from England also brought a culture and a way of life that would define the new world. It all began here.
In time, dozens of brave, strong women made the journey and joined the colony. And in 1618, the Great Charter and other reforms, established a system based on English common law.
For the first time, Virginia allowed private land ownership. It created a basic judicial system. Finally, it gave the colonists a say in their own future, the right to elect representatives by popular vote.
With us today in tribute to that English legal inheritance is the former clerk of the British House of Commons, Sir David Natzler. Thank you, David. Thank you. Sir David, we are thrilled to have you with us. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much, David.
At that first American assembly in 1619, the weather was so hot that one legislator actually died. Mercifully, the session was cut very short. But before adjourning, the assembly passed laws on taxation, agriculture, and trade with the Indians.
With true American optimism, the assembly even endorsed a plan to build a world class university, in this still-rugged wilderness. It was a vision that would one day be fulfilled just miles from here, at one of America’s earliest educational institutions, the esteemed College of William and Mary. Great place. Great place.
As we mark the first representative legislature at Jamestown, our nation also reflects upon an anniversary from that same summer, four centuries ago. In August, 1619, the first enslaved Africans in the English colonies arrived in Virginia. It was the beginning of a barbaric trade in human lives. Today in honor, we remember every sacred soul who suffered the horrors of slavery and the anguish of bondage.
More than 150 years later, at America’s founding, our Declaration of Independence recognized the immortal truth that all men are created equal. Yet, it would ultimately take a civil war, 85 years after that document was signed, to abolish the evil of slavery.
It would take more than another century for our nation, in the words of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., to live out the true meaning of its creed, and extend the blessings of freedom to all Americans.
In the face of grave oppression and grave injustice, African Americans have built, strengthened, inspired, uplifted, protected, defended, and sustained our nation from its very earliest days.
Last year, I was privileged to sign the law establishing a commission to commemorate the arrival of the first Africans to the English colonies, and the 400 years of African American history that have followed.
That was an incredible day. That was an incredible event. Today, we are grateful to be joined by that commission’s chairman, Dr. Joseph Green. Thank you, Dr. Green, please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Dr. Green.
In the decades that followed that first legislative assembly, the democratic tradition established here lay deep roots all across Virginia. It spread up and down the Atlantic coast.
One fact was quickly established for all time. In America, we are not ruled from afar. Americans govern ourselves, and so help us, God, we always will.
Right here in Virginia, your predecessors-
Mr. President, you can’t send us back. Virginia is our home. This is [inaudible 00:13:04], you can’t send us back. Virginia is our home.
Thank you very much, thank you.
Right here in Virginia, your predecessors came to Williamsburg from places you all know very well. They were named such as George Washington, from Fairfax County. Thomas Jefferson, from Albemarle County. James Madison, from Orange County. James Monroe, from Spotsylvania County. Patrick Henry, from Louisa County. George Mason, from Fairfax County. George With, W-I-T-H, that’s a great name, from Williamsburg. And Richard Henry Lee, from Westmoreland County. Incredible names, incredible names.
Self government in Virginia did not just give us a state we love. In a very true sense, it gave us the country we love, the United States of America. So true. Thank you very much.
When Madison drafted the First Amendment to our constitution, he drew inspiration from Virginia’s Statute for Religious Freedom. As John Adams wrote in Philadelphia, just before the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, we all look up to Virginia for examples. Great. It’s so great.
And when Patrick Henry rose to speak his famous words at St. John’s Church in Richmond, “Give me liberty or give me death,” he spoke in defense of a tradition that began more than 150 years before at Jamestown. Right here.
It was a heritage those patriots would fight a long war of independence to defend, and it is a heritage that countless Americans have fought and died for to secure in all of those centuries since. In our time, we must vigorously defend those cherished democratic traditions that have made our beloved republic the envy of the entire world. And it still is, as much as ever before, and maybe more.
Our hard-won culture of self-government must be nourished, protected, and constantly preserved. That is why we must speak out strongly against anyone who would take power away from citizens, individuals, and state governments such as yours. In America, the people will forever rule. The people will forever reign, and the people will forever be sovereign.
From the first legislative assembly down to today, America has been the story of citizens who take ownership of their future and their control of their destiny. That is what self-rule is all about, everyday Americans coming together to take action, to build, to create, to seize opportunities, to pursue the common good, and to never stop striving for greatness.
Four centuries ago, one early voyager to Jamestown captured the spirit of confidence and daring that has always powered our great experiment in self-government. He wrote, “We hope to plant a nation where none before hath stood.” That was something.
In that hope, the men and women of Jamestown achieved success beyond anything they could possibly have imagined. They started the nation that settled the wilderness, won our independence, tamed the Wild West, ended slavery, secured civil rights, invented the airplane, vanquished the Nazis, brought communism to its knees, and placed our great American flag on the face of the moon.
And in a program that’s just started, someday very soon, American astronauts will plant our beautiful stars and stripes on the surface of Mars.
But among all of America’s towering achievements, none exceeds the triumph that we are here to celebrate today. Our nation’s priceless culture of freedom, independence, equality, justice, and self-determination under God.
That culture is the source of who we are. It is our prized inheritance. It is our proudest legacy. It is among the greatest human accomplishments in the history of the world. What you have done is the greatest accomplishment in the history of the world, and I congratulate you. It started right here.
Now, we must go bravely into the future, just as those bold explorers first ventured into this majestic land. We must call upon the same scale of imagination, the same thirst for knowledge, the same love of adventure, the same unrelenting courage, and the same total determination to prevail.
Above all, we must be proud of our heritage, united in our purpose, and filled with confidence in our shared great, great, great American destiny.
For in America, no challenge is too great. No journey is too tough. No task is too large. No dream is beyond our reach. When we set our sight on the summit, nothing can stand in our way. America always gets the job done. America always wins.
That is why after 400 years of glorious American democracy, we have returned here to this place to declare to all the world that the United States of America and the Great Commonwealth of Virginia are just getting started.
Our future is bigger, bolder, better, and brighter than ever before. It’s been a great honor for me to be with you this morning. I’d like to thank you. God bless you. God bless Virginia, and God bless America. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
Good builder. He loved to build houses. He was a good builder. I learned so much from him, and he was a great guy. Lovely guy. Loved my father.
He described his mother Mary, a Scottish immigrant, as the perfect housewife. His father Fred was a millionaire real-estate developer. The Trump patriarch has been described as a human machine, driven.
His father was a … he was a demanding guy, and he very much pushed Donald, and Donald, in some ways, was the chosen son.
That ambition was unmistakably prevalent in young Donald’s DNA.
He apparently loved military school. He liked the kind of out front, I think, competitiveness of it. There were so many different ways that you could excel and get medals, and ribbons.
Donald Trump thrived, raising in rank, and he was socially popular with men and women. He also gravitated towards sports, or rather, winning in sports, in soccer, wrestling, football, and baseball.
He excelled at baseball to the point where I think his coaches felt that he could become a professional baseball player.
The children were all raised to be high achievers, but Donald in particular patterned himself after his father.
I started off making little deals in Brooklyn and Queens with my father, and they seemed to work out.
And then, with a loan from Dad, Donald Trump struck out on his own.
I think the rules that Fred Trump taught his son Donald began with he must be a winner.
You had said that one of the most important aspects in your personality is winning. Why winning? What about the it’s not whether you win or lose, it’s how you play the game?
I like winning better. We have to win.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for President of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
I was called by a major, major reporter whose name I will not use, and he said to me, “What you’ve done has never been done in the history of the United States politics,” and more and more people are resonating to what I’m saying. That’s why I’m leading in every poll.
We have so much winning if I get elected that you may get bored with winning.
I think I have to win. I’m about winning.
You’ve called women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs, and disgusting animals. Your Twitter account is-
Only Rosie O’Donnell.
The big problem this country has is being politically correct. I’ve been challenged by so many people, and I don’t frankly have time for total political correctness.
This is a tough business.
Oh yeah. You’re a tough guy, Jeff.
And we need to have a leader that is-
Real tough.
You’re never going to be President of the United States.
You’re real tough, Jeff.
By insulting your way to presidency.
Well, let’s see. I’m at 42, and you’re at 3, so so far-
Doesn’t matter.
I’m doing better.
Doesn’t matter.
So far, I’m doing better. You started off over here, Jeff. You’re moving over further and further. Pretty soon, you’re going to be off the end.
I will build a great, great wall on the Southern border, and I will have Mexico pay for that wall.
The former President of Mexico, Vicente Fox, he said today, and I’m quoting him, he said, “I’m not going to pay for that, ‘f*ing wall.'” How are you going to make them pay for the wall?
I will, and the wall just got 10 feet taller. Believe me.
Tolerance for criminal aliens is zero, zero. [crosstalk 00:03:57]
Donald J. Trump has been selected as the Republican Party nominee for President of the United States.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican nominee for President Donald J. Trump, and the Democratic nominee for President Hillary Clinton.
at least I have a plan to fight ISIS.
No, no. You’re telling the enemy everything you want to do.
no, we’re not.
See, you’re telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you’ve been fighting. No wonder you’ve been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.
We’re going to secure the border. And once the border is secured, at a later date, we’ll make it to termination as to the rest. But, we have some bad hombres here, and we’re going to get them out.
We will release my tax returns, against my lawyer’s wishes, when she releases her 33,000 emails that have been deleted.
I did not support the war in Iraq.
2002.
That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she, frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media.
My social security, payroll contribution will go up, as will Donald’s, assuming he can’t figure out how to get out of it. But, what we want to do is to replenish the-
Such a nasty woman.
Social security trust fund.
After getting the subpoena, you delete 33,000 emails, and then you acid wash them, or bleach them, as you would say, a very expensive process. So, we’re going to get a special prosecutor, and we’re going to look into it, because you know what? You oughta be ashamed of yourself.
It’s just awfully good that someone with the temperament of Donald Trump is not in charge of the law in our country.
Because you’d be in jail.
Secretary Clinton.
I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election, if I win.
So Jenny, could he actually win?
No freaking way.
There’s not going to be a President Donald Trump. That’s not going to happen.
Donald Trump will not be called President.
He’s not going to be President. He is not, Donald Trump, is not going to be President of the United States.
Okay.
Take it to the bank. I guarantee it.
All right.
Thank you for coming out one last rally before election day tomorrow. [crosstalk 00:06:39] Let’s make history together. Thank you, and God bless you!
Going into this night, where do we stand?
This is where we stood coming into the night, 268 to 204. So clearly an advantage for Secretary Clinton.
Florida kept going back and forth, back and forth.
Yeah, it just changed again. It’s only 11,000 votely, just now it changed.
Back on your feet. I like this.
Anderson, this night is turning out to be a real nail-biter.
All along, the Trump campaign has been saying that Florida is a must win for them.
They can’t win without it.
Donald Trump, we project, will win in Kentucky with its eight electoral votes, and Indiana with its 11 electoral votes, West Virginia, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Mississippi, South Carolina, Alabama, Kansas with its six electoral votes.
The scene here is so different than it was a few hours ago when people were happy and relaxed. There are people who are just in shock, and they are just stunned at the idea that they were completely sure they were coming to this event to celebrate Hillary Clinton becoming the first female President, and now, they are confronting the reality that they could be walking out of here perhaps expecting that Donald Trump is going to become President.
[inaudible 00:08:07]. The state of Montana, Missouri, Ohio, Idaho, North Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Utah, Wisconsin.
Hillary Clinton has called Donald Trump to concede the race.
Thank you. [crosstalk 00:08:23] Thank you very much, everyone. Sorry to keep you waiting, complicated business. Complicated business. We did have a lot of fun fighting Hillary, didn’t we? Right? We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag. From now on, it’s going to be America first, okay? America first.
Please raise your right hand, and repeat after me. I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear.
I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear. That I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States. So help me God.
Congratulations.
From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, it’s going to be only America first, America first. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers, and American families. I will fight for you with every breath in my body, and I will never, ever let you down.
We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth, and we will bring back our dreams. Do not allow anyone to tell you that it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of America. We will not fail. January 20th, 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again.
[inaudible 00:11:02] please come in. This is Larry Wild. Be advised. Eagle is in route. I repeat, eagle is in route.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
So, let’s have a good time, right? I’m excited to be here today with thousands of proud, young American patriots. You all are great people. You’re the future. You’re the future. On behalf of my entire administration, thank you to everyone at Turning Point USA’s Teen Student Action Summit. What a group. What a group.
They don’t realize there’s more of you than there is of them. They just haven’t figured that out yet. They’ll understand. They’ll figure it out someday. They’re still trying to figure out what the hell happened. What happened? How did this happen? You’ve come to our nation’s Capitol from cities and towns across America. You’ve given up a big part of your summer, which many young people are not willing to do, and we understand that too. But what you’re doing is fun, and it’s important, so important.
You’ve paved and paved your own way to get here, and in some cases, it wasn’t easy, and you’ve done it for all of us. You’ve done it for one simple reason. You are loyal to our nation. You are devoted to your fellow citizens. And you will always put America first.
I want to thank my great friend, and he’s a young friend, he’s a pretty young guy, Charlie Kirk. I said, “How old are you, Charlie?” He’s a young one. Gave me a number I won’t say, but he’s younger than he even looks. But, I want to thank Charlie. He’s an incredible guy. His spirit is love of this country. He’s done an amazing job. He’s done something that is just incredible for someone really of his age. You need tremendous talent to do what he’s done, building one of the most powerful youth organizations ever created, Turning Point USA, and I want to thank you really, Charlie. You did an incredible job.
The young leaders here today are part of a movement unlike anything in the history of our nation. There’s never been anything like this. And the fake news doesn’t even talk about it, because- no, but when I say it, they don’t correct me. They don’t say, “Oh, he’s a Pinocchio.” They can’t, because it’s true. It’s true. They can find fault with anything, but they never talk about that, because we won. There have been some pretty good movements, and they won New Hampshire, or they won the state, some place, but they didn’t win the whole ball game. You saw what we won.
And you could see it. We could feel it. We knew it was going to happen, because it’s a movement about reclaiming your future, rebuilding your country, and restoring your destiny, and renewing the values that are the true source of American greatness. We lost those values, and we’re getting them back rapidly. We’re getting them back rapidly.
Just backstage, a gentleman, very rich gentleman in this case, came up sitting in one of these rows, I assume. Yeah. There he is. He said, “Sir, thank you for saving our country.” And I said, “Thank you very much.” I said, “Thank you very much.” And I looked at Charlie. And I said, “Charlie, do you have any idea how many people say that?” I gave the commencement address at the Air Force Academy recently, and Indianapolis the year before. And they said, “Sir, would you like to shake the hands of all the cadets?” I said, “How many are there?” “1,100.” I said, “Yeah, that sounds okay.” I say, “Do other Presidents do it?” “Yes, they do.” “Do all of them?” “yeah, they do.” What they didn’t say is they start and then they beat around, and then they go back, because it’s tough. It was really hot. That sun was beaming down, and I’m just one hand. Some of these guys are great athletes. Some of the women, they had some women in the class that were … their hands were very strong, okay? And they were all shaking it. They’re a little nervous meeting the President. They’re shaking strongly and … sir.
But with shaking 1,100 hands, and saluting, was saluting, shaking, turning, spinning. They come at all different directions. Felt like a great fighter pilot. But, I stood up there for the whole thing. I said, “There’s no way that other Presidents have done that.” He said, “No, no, they do it, but they leave after about 50 or 60 people.” I said, “Why didn’t you tell me that?” But I’m glad I did it.
But, I did the same thing. I did the same thing at Annapolis the year before, great place. Just great. And I shook the hands of, I think, 1,011 at Annapolis, and it’s really something great. But, so many of these young incredible people, they’re like you, so many of these young incredible people, they come, “Sir, thank you for saving America.” “Sir, thank you for saving America.” “Sir, thank you for saving our country.” So many of them, it’s not rehearsed. It’s just that’s what they feel.
And you know what? Someone had to do what I did. It’s not pleasant. We have a deep state. We have banned people. We have sick people. I watched just this morning this Tlaib from Michigan, right? It’s a great state. We won Michigan. There is no way she stands for the values of the people of Michigan. But, I watched her this morning. She’s vicious. She’s like a crazed lunatic. She’s screaming. This is before she got into Congress. Who elected her? She’s screaming like a total lunatic at one of our rallies. It’s like I’m giving a little rally, and she starts screaming. And this is not a sane person, folks, when you look at that.
And this is what we’re up against. You have some of that. Now, the Democrats, I guess, are forced to embrace her, and I call it AOC plus three. Okay? AOC. AOC plus three. Not that AOC is a bargain, because she’s not. She’s no bargain. Look. We’ll go into it at some point. I’ll tell you all about AOC. I’ve got more on AOC. AOC. AOC.
But, what’s going on with that party, having to embrace them, and your other friend from an incredible state, right? A state that I’m going to win, Minnesota. You know that one. And you know why I’m going to win the state? Because of her. I almost won it last time. We came within just about a point. That’s a very … because Minnesota’s a very hard one for a Republican to win. We almost won it, one more night. I wanted to go there one more time. I said, “I’m telling you, we’re going to win Minnesota.”
You know who thought I was going to win Minnesota? You know who thought I was going to win Michigan, and Wisconsin, and North Carolina? Bill Clinton. He was telling everybody, “You better be careful.” He told people, from what I hear, he said, “The one you don’t want to run against is Trump.” And they said, “Why? Oh no, that’s good. We want to run against Trump.” No, no, you don’t.
You know, I actually knew him pretty well. We got along very well, until I decided to run for office. We actually got along. But, they didn’t want to listen to him. But, he was the only one with the instinct. The rest didn’t have. So, he came back and he said, “You know, he’s doing very well in Michigan. You could have a problem.” They said, “No, don’t worry about Michigan. We haven’t lost Michigan in decades.”
And he came back. He said, “You know, he was in Wisconsin, or something.” But he said he hears that I’m doing well in Wisconsin. They say, “Forget it. A Republican can’t win Wisconsin.” And then we won Wisconsin. Then he came back. And I say this with a certain old time affection, because I had a very good relationship with him before doing this. Now it’s a little harder for him to have a good relationship.
But, he said, “You don’t want to run against Trump. Don’t run against Trump.” Everybody said, “No, no. That’s okay. We like him.” Remember, President Obama? “He will not win. He will not win.” Okay? He goes, “Liar.” Yeah. Hey, did Obama get a Pinocchio? That’s right. Obama said, “He will not win. He will not be your President.” The anger was unbelievable. You know what? He’s right. He was a liar. Did you give Obama a Pinocchio Washington Post? He said, “He will not win.” These papers.
These papers are so bad. So yesterday, we had a story in one of the papers that I thought was good, but they’re really not. When you analyze it, there’s almost not too many of them that are. The wall. We’re building a lot of wall. But, let me just tell you. But, there are areas where they have walls that are falling down, walls that are in such bad shape. We’re trying to renovate it as much as we can. And we have a provision. We can renovate, but we can’t build new.
So, we’re taking all these years, and generally speaking, when you have an old wall that’s falling down, it’s in a better location for a wall. That’s why they had it there in the first place, as opposed to an area that’s empty. Typically, that would be true. So, these walls are old. They’re crumbling. They’re of no use. They’re falling down. So, we rip it up, build brand new foundations, pour brand new beautiful footings, and take a wall that’s two or three feet high, mostly laying on the ground, some of it only for cars, to stop cars from coming, of course. Just a metal spike.
So we would rip it out, figure it would take about a minute, and we put in deep foundation seven feet deep, and we put in 30 foot bollards, and then loaded it up with concrete, because inside, I like doing it. One of the reasons, they said, “But, you said you’re going to build a concrete wall.” Well, so actually inside the steel, we have it. So we have both. We have steel and we have concrete.
And I was saving that for later, because the only thing they can do is, “He’s building a steel wall. It’s not concrete.” Oh, sorry about that, folks. And you do have to have vision. It’s very important. You can’t just have a blank wall. You have to have vision. It’s much better for security to have the vision.
Anyway, so we’re building the wall. So, they come out with, “Donald Trump has built almost no wall.” What a lie that is, and we’re building 50 miles here, 50 miles there, 50 all in the right locations, because there used to be walls, but then we had to take them down. In some cases, if they’re good enough, we’re renovating, because we can do it for a lot less money. But generally, some of these walls are worthless. Literally, you just drive right over them. They’re laying down on their side.
They gave me no credit. If you ready the story, they’ll say, “Well, he has renovated a lot of wall.” Well, that’s not even a renovation. Let’s face it. That’s a brand new wall. It’s all a brand new wall. It just shows you how dishonest this fake news is, and this is what we have to deal with. This is really what we have to deal with. But, get used to it.
Many of you will be in politics. Just get used to it, okay? Get used to it. Together, is this true? We believe in the American Constitution, and we believe judges should interpret our Constitution as written. You’ll be seeing this. We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Second Amendment. What a group.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Look. Look. They are in the process of trying to take your arms away. You have the Second Amendment. They will do damage to the Second Amendment, the likes of which nobody even thought of. That’s where they’re coming from. Just remember, I said it. Hopefully, they never get the chance. And that’s why the election coming up … I always said this is the most important election, 2016, most important election that we’ve ever had.
And it was certainly the coolest. That’s for sure. But, it was, I believe, the most important election, because our country was going wrong. It was going wrong. And when you see all the incredible numbers coming up, and all the success that we’re having, and all the fact that we’re respected all over the world. We have a really good man who’s going to be the Prime Minister of the UK now, Boris Johnson.
Good man. He’s tough, and he’s smart. This ain’t Britain Trump. They call him Britain Trump. And people are saying, “That’s a good thing.” They like me over there. That’s what they wanted. That’s what they need. That’s what they need. He’ll get it done. Boris is good. He’s going to do a good job. I think Nigel’s some place in this audience. Where’s Nigel? Where is he? Nigel Farage. He’s here some place. I saw him. I said, “What is he doing here?” He’s a little older than most of you. Where is he? Nigel. Nigel.
I’ll tell you what. He got 32% of the vote from nowhere, over in the UK. Nigel, thank you Nigel. I said, “What’s Nigel doing here?” He’s a little older than you folks. But, he did a great job. But, I know that he’s going to work well with Boris. They’re going to do some tremendous things. But, we believe in the American dream, and not a socialist nightmare that these people are trying to put on our shoulders.
And we know that strong nations must have strong borders, and we’re building a strong border against so much. You have no idea. Every time I announce, as an example, a section of wall, I get lawsuits. They sue me. You know who sues me? Congressmen. Congressmen. I get sued by Nancy Pelosi. We won that suit. Can you believe it? I won one. We won a couple of them, but we have suits on the border. We had one judge. They always sue in the ninth circuit. You know what that means, right?
They sue in the ninth circuit, which is sort of like an automatic victory, although we did win one last week in the ninth circuit. No one can even believe it. Can you? You know what’s happening, right? Do you know what’s happening? So as of today, this is so important, there are those that say it’s the most important. I would say war and peace and security, that’s the most important. But, they say the most important thing a President can do is the selection of Supreme Court justices, right?
We have two, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh. We have two. Already, we have two. Some have gone a long time, and they haven’t had many, and they haven’t had any, in some cases. So, we have two already. And they’re great, and they’re good. But, what people don’t talk about, I’ve just signed the 124th federal district judge, federal judges underneath. And within a couple of months, I’ll be up to 147. Think of that. 147. Because normally, when you become President, you go in, and you say, “Do I have any judges to appoint?” No. Because it’s such an important thing. Because these district judges, they’re the ones who do the trials. This is big stuff.
And then, you have court of appeals judges. Then, you have the Supreme Court judges. So, we have two on the Supreme Court. We have many appeals court judges, many that we’ve appointed. The courts are a whole different thing. But, I will be up to 147, not including the two Supreme Court justices.
Now, percentage wise, I blow everybody away except one person, one person I’ll never beat. You know who the one person is? Who? George Washington. He’s got 100%. George Washington. But, we’re going to have a tremendous percentage, and after six more years, it will go to a level that nobody believed was possible.
But, George Washington’s hard to beat because he put in 100, because he was the first, so he had it. But, I have many more than George Washington. Remember that. George Washington didn’t put in too many, but he had certainly the highest percentage. That will be a record that will never be broken.
We believe that every young American should love our country, honor our history, and always respect what? Our great American flag. How about the Betsy Ross? Isn’t that terrible, where they try to take your heritage away from you like that? Isn’t that terrible?
Like that, isn’t that terrible? Isn’t that terrible? And then, you see the picture of President Obama with the same exactly leg up. He should’ve taken it down. Why didn’t he take it down? It’s really very unfair what they do. They try and demean and belittle, and they’re very good at it. They’re better at than they are at politics. They’re better than that then they are at policy. Look at their policy. They want open borders, which means crime, which means drugs and human trafficking, which is a phenomenon that you would think is thousands of years old, and that would’ve been their prime. No, the prime is now because of the internet. Women, mostly women, are being trafficked, and they got not only in this country, all over the world. It’s never been like this before. Human trafficking, they snatch women, and they traffic women, and they sell women, and we can’t get the Democrats to even give us a modicum of the money we need at the border, especially for the wall. I’m taking money from here and there and there and there. Let’s take it from here. We have all these different sources coming from all over the place because they won’t approve it, and five years ago, they all wanted it.
Six years ago, seven years ago, they all voted for it. They never got it built, but they all voted for it, and today, they make it so tough. You have to see. I’m doing everything I can, and we’re doing well with it, but this should just be one nice, fat sum where I could get the best four or five contractors, not worry about I gave it out, but I have a lawsuit, and if the lawsuit happens, I have to undo it. How do you give a contract out where you have a contractor, and he’s got to build 67 miles of wall? We have one case, but we’re being sued, our funding source, because we’re taking it from a certain area, and so, we’re being sued. So, we have to wait for the suit. I mean, how would you like to be building like this? Not good, it’s not good, but we’re getting it done anyway, but they should say, “It’s not working without the wall. You got to have the wall. You got to have … ” When they bum rush you, they did that last week. They rushed in a tremendous large number of people. By the way, you know why they’re coming up right? Because we have created the strongest economy in the history of our country. So, they’re coming because they want a piece of the economy.
They’re not coming up for safety and this and that. You ever see these people? They fly their flag. They come up from Guatemala, who by the way, went back on their word to us. They were all set to sign a safe third agreement, and then, today or yesterday, they announced they can’t do it because they’ve got a Supreme Court ruling, their Supreme Court, right? They got [inaudible 00:34:42]. In other words, they didn’t want to sign it. So, they’re supposed to sign what’s called a safe third. That’s a good thing for us, okay? That’s all I have to tell you, and they went back. So, we’re going to do either tariffs, or we’re going to do a form of tax, or we’re going to use our ban. People don’t realize we won the ban. I saw one of the journalists, we’ll call them, who happens to be back there, I believe. One of them, look at all those cameras. Isn’t that terrible or good or whatever?
Thank you!
Wouldn’t it be great if they told the truth? They have such a low credibility. They started off very high, and then, I ran, and their credibility is so low, you wouldn’t believe it. But that’s okay, but wouldn’t it be nice if they … Think of it. Think of it. What would be if we had an honest … I don’t want a media that’s for me. I just want an honest media. So, we have our best poll numbers today that we’ve ever had. Can you imagine how good our poll numbers, with all the things that we’ve done, how good our numbers would be if we had just a fair media? Because they can take any-
100%!
He goes 100%. Who said that? Stand up. Huh? You bet. He goes 100%, and you know what? I like your long hair. It’s very nice, actually. Good. Thank you. Thank you. That’s funny. So, above all else, we know this, that in America, we don’t worship government. We worship God.
I’m not disavowing that they like me. Would you disavow that? No, thank you. The squad. No, it’s very good, very true. These are the values that unite everyone in this room. These are the values that inspire hundreds of thousands of Turning Point usa members and more than 1400 college and high school campuses in all 50 states. It’s incredible what’s been done with Turning Point and the job, Charlie, and everybody. I met all of the people backstage just a little while ago. These are people that love our country. It’s amazing what they’ve done, the job they’ve done and in a pretty short period of time. And I was telling Charlie, too, and I’ve said it before, ” Remember, you are not in the minority. Most people are with you.” There was a young woman today. I saw her on a beauty pageant, and she has conservative values, and the pageant, which used to compete against my pageant … I did much better, but that’s okay. I had the Miss Universes. This is a different company, but I sold it. I figured when you run for office, I sold it to IMG, great company, very nice deal, too.
But when you run for office, owning a beauty pageant is not the greatest idea. Do we agree? Owning the Miss Universe and Miss usa and Miss Teen usa, by the way, was not exactly good with maybe running for president. So, we sold it to IMG, but what they did to this young lady was terrible, and she was on Fox and Friends this morning wearing a Make America Great Again hat, which was pretty cool, which was pretty cool. Each of you is coming of age at a time of unlimited possibility. It’s true, better than, I think, ever before. We have the hottest economy on the planet Earth, and I was elected. We’ve created more than six million new jobs. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps, think of that. Unemployment for young Americans age 16 to 19 has reached the lowest rate in over half a century. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Wages are rising, and they’re growing fastest for blue collar workers. Isn’t that great, though? People don’t talk about that. Young people have seen their wages rise by more than 10%. That’s a lot quickly, too.
Our economic revival is incredible, and it’s incredible news for everyone graduating from college or joining the workforce. This is the best time in the history of our country for young people like yourself to join the workforce because America’s thriving. America’s booming, and America is winning again and winning like never before. It’s never been winning like this, and we did it through a lot of hard work. It’s not luck. I will tell you. If our opponent, if my opponent won, instead of having record stock markets and record employment numbers, you would’ve been in, in my opinion, a major recession, if not a depression. You would’ve gone down like a rock. Look what happened right after the election. The stock market was like a rocket ship because of enthusiasm. People wanted to have us win. It’s not me. It’s us. It’s all of us. It’s a movement. It’s us, and the market [inaudible 00:40:35]. We cute our record number of job-killing regulations. We passed historic tax cuts so that our industries can compete and win against anyone in the world. We are revising decades of ruinous trade deals that ravaged our communities and pillaged our factories. We were sending companies out of our country, great companies. They were leaving us, going to Mexico, going to China, going to so many other places.
The deals we made were the dumbest deals in the history of this world. It was unbelievable. 60,000 factories and plants and businesses closed up. Think of it. 60,000, you would say, “How is that possible?” You get a map, take 60,000 … You would say it’s impossible. 60,000 factories, plants, companies destroyed. Not destroyed, they went a different way. They were given no incentives to stay here. Some of the dumbest legislation ever passed, NAFTA. The World Trade Organization has been a horrible thing for us. That’s what built China. That and the fact that our former presidents did nothing about the fact that China was making hundreds of billions of dollars a year, and I guess they didn’t see it. I mean, 25 years they didn’t see it, but we see it, and right now, they’re paying us billions and billions of dollars, folks, billions. And they want to make a deal badly, and we’ll see whether or not we’ll make a deal. We’ll see. We’ll see, but our farmers are being helped. I said to our secretary of agriculture, Sonny Perdue, because China, very smart. I don’t blame them. Look, I’m not blaming them. I blame our past leaders for allowing it to happen.
I’m not blaming China. We should’ve done that to them. I blame our past leaders. I said that to President Xi of China. I said it, but I said to Sonny Perdue, “So, Sonny, they’re targeting us.” They said. They actually took ads in the Des Moines register, anti-Trump. I love Iowa, too. It says Iowa loves you. I love Iowa. Well, ethanol is doing pretty well in Iowa, too, right? But they took ads in the Iowa papers, and it was anti-Trump ads, right? And then, they stopped buying a lot of the product, almost everything. They stopped buying from our farmers because they knew that was my strength. The whole middle of the country is red. You saw that in the clip. That clip was fantastic. By the way, Charlie, that clip was so good, I would’ve rather seen it a second time, and I could’ve come on a little bit later. I like it, but that clip was great. But you see, the whole center’s all bright red, meaning Republican, all read, and just those little edges are blue. So, they targeted the red. Nobody’s said China’s stupid, and they said, “We’re not going to buy product.” And essentially, they really closed it up.
So, we’re taking in billions of dollars in tariffs from China. They never gave us 25 cents, and I said to my Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue’s great, I said, “Sonny, what’s the biggest year that we’ve ever had with China? How much money did they spend in the United States?” “Sir, I’ll get back to you.” He gets back to me the next day. “Sir, $16 billion.” I say, “All right. We’ll take $16 billion out of our tariffs,” which are many times that amount that they are paying us in tariffs. They never paid us 25 cents. We’ll take $16 billion out. That’s the highest they’ve ever paid, and we’ll use that toward the farmers and distribute it. This way, nobody gets hurt. And no other president’s doing that for the farmers, or no other president’s going to save the miners and save energy. We’re the number one producer of energy now in the world, and when I came, it was heading in the wrong direction. It was heading in a very bad direction. Right now, we’re bigger than Russia and bigger than Saudi Arabia and bigger than anybody. And we know that our first duty and our one true allegiance is to the American nation and to the American citizen, the usa.
Loyalty to our people is our guiding light. It’s our north star and our unwavering conviction. We have secured record funding to build up awesome might for the United States military because we know the best way to prevent conflict is to be prepared for it. So, when you’re strong, strong, strong, it’s okay. They’re going to leave you alone. They said, “Let’s pass.” We had a depleted military. We built up our military. We had jets so well they didn’t fly. We had a large percentage of fighter jets that were out. We had that old Navy. We’re building brand new submarines, brand new ships. We’re building tremendous F35s, F18s. We’re building a military, the likes of which even we have never had because we have to. New missiles, we make the greatest equipment in the world. I hate to mention this word, but we’re renewing and renovating our nuclear arsenal like never before, and we hope to God that we never have to use it. That’s what I say. We hope to God we never have to use it, but we have to have it ready. We have to have it as a horrible, to me, the most horrible alternative that can happen is that, but we have nuclear, the likes of which nobody’s ever had, like we have, and all pray that we never have to use it.
Our agenda is pro-worker and pro-family. We’re making childcare more affordable, expanding access to vocational education, so important, and our pledge to America’s workers had secured commitments to provide more than nine million apprenticeships and job opportunities for industries all over the country. We’re helping people get jobs. We’re helping Walmart and so many companies. They went out. They went all out. They went all out, and they’re working. And they’re working with a person you may have heard of, perhaps not, Ivanka Trump. She loves it. She loves it. She loves it. I’ll tell you, she didn’t need it. She loves it. More than anything, that’s what she loves because she says we’re providing so many jobs, and they’re training people. And the government can’t really train them. When you go into these big companies, the Caterpillars and all of these, you’ve got to sort of be trained by the people that do it, the complexity, the aerospace. Lockheed Martin has been great. Boeing has been great. There’s so many, and they can train much better than the government. The government, really, wouldn’t know where to begin. So, they’re training. We’re going to have close to 10 million very shortly, and Ivanka really has done an incredible job on that.
I might as well give her credit because the media will never give her credit. She’s my daughter. I’ll give her credit, but it’s true, and you know what? If she didn’t do a good job, I don’t know that I’d say that, but I wouldn’t be talking about her. That I can tell you. I’d probably just fluff over it. She’s done an incredible job. There’s truly never been a better time to be young and American. There’s never been a better time because our future is the brightest than it’s ever been. A new poll only … You’ve got to hear this. How about this whole witch hunt that’s going on? Should I talk about it for a second?
Yeah!
The Russian witch hunt, okay? First of all, it’s very bad for our country. Makes it very hard to deal with Russia, and we should be able to. They’re a nuclear power. They have a big country, and we should be able to deal with them without having this artificial stuff, but think of it. Only 11% in a new poll favor the starting of this ridiculous impeachment hearings that are going on. You hear about it. So, I said this morning, I wrote it out. I said, “Let’s see,” because I’m watching. It goes on for years and years and years, no collusion, no obstruction. Oh, that’s not good enough. Let’s go more. $40 million dollars, interview 500 people, they’ve got nothing. I could find something. I could take anybody in this audience. Give me 40 million, give me unlimited FBI, unlimited interviews. They interviewed 500 people. Listen to this, 2500 subpoenas, they did everything. The collusion, no collusion, they have no collusion. Then, I have an article, too, where I have the right to do whatever I want as president, but I don’t even talk about that because they did a report, and there was no obstruction. After looking at it, our great Attorney General read it. He’s a total professional. He said, “There’s nothing here. There’s no obstruction.”
So, they referenced no obstruction. So, you have no collusion, no obstruction, and yet, it goes on. And they think this is helping them. I personally think it’s hurting them. A lot of people think it’s very bad for them, but it just goes on. I wrote something out this morning on a thing called Twitter, whether we like it or not. It is a good way of getting the word out because I saw Mueller’s testifying tomorrow again. How many times? Two-and-a-half years, and actually, it started practically from the time I came down on the escalator. They said, “He’s got good numbers. We better start looking at him right away. Maybe he’s dealing with a foreign country.” I’m saying, “What are you talking about?” Listen to this. I wrote this out this morning. I said on Twitter, “Well, let’s see. We have the best economy in history,” and it used to be it’s the economy’s stupid, right? It’s the economy, nothing else. It’s the economy’s stupid. So, we have the best economy in history, the best employment numbers in history, the most people working, almost 160 million, in the history of our country. The most people working, that’s a big number.
So, we have the best economy, the best unemployment numbers, most people working. On Thursday, we have the highest stock market in the history of our country, and a lot of you with 401(k)s, now, that’s not a rich people thing. The people that own that stock are people with 401(k)s, everything else. We have the best stock market in the history of our country. We just got the biggest tax and regulation cuts in the history of our country. We got rid of the individual mandate from Obamacare, which was the worst part of Obamacare. We got, perhaps, the biggest energy site in the world approved in Alaska called ANWR. Nobody could do it from Ronald Reagan to present, they said, “Can’t do it.” We got ANWR approved. We have the best and newest military that we’ve ever had, almost totally rebuilt from the depleted military that I inherited two-and-a-half years ago. Our military was totally depleted from these ridiculous, endless wars. So, we have the best, newest military in history, and the VA, you don’t hear any problems anymore, do you? Remember, you’d hear so many problems. We have the best VA in history, and I got choice.
That’s one of the things that’s working so that if a person has to wait for three weeks, four weeks, five weeks, can you imagine you go to a doctor, they say come back in six weeks? People were coming back that were sick, and they were coming back, and they were terminal. They could’ve been saved. They were waiting so long. So, I’ve got choice. If you have to wait, you go out, you see a doctor, we pay the bill, okay? The least important things is we save money. That’s the least important thing in that case, but we do save money, but we also have a very happy VA. They love it. Those are just a few of the things. So, we have all of this, the best economy, best market, best military, best VA, best everything and much, much more. And then, I say in this statement this morning, “Gee, let’s impeach the president.” I mean, you figured. These people have gone totally crazy. They’ve gone totally crazy. It is sort of nuts. That’s true. I guess that was a Clinton statement, right? It’s the economy’s stupid. Is that Clinton? But it’s not everything about the economy. It’s not everything, a lot of other things, but we’re at the top of every single thing that we do.
When you think our military, and you look at … And let me tell you something I didn’t put. We are respected as a country again. They respect us because other countries have been ripping us off so badly, and some of the worst offenders are our so-called allies. They rip us off on trade. European Union is worse to us on trade than China, okay? Nobody would think that. A lot of us come from European Union. We come from Europe, our grandparents, our great-grandparents. So, you think, “Oh, isn’t that nice?” Except they kill us, the European Union. It was formed in order to beat us economically, and yet, we protect them with NATO. So, they rip us off on trade, and we protect them with military, but here’s the problem with the protection. They’re not paying their bills. So, they United States, I’ve got a $100 billion more on the last two years, 100 billion. I got them to pay. I said, “You got to pay.” Nobody else has ever done that. It was like this with every other president. President Obama would go meet them. He talked nice, I don’t know, to me, not so nice.
Some people would say, “Oh, isn’t that a wonderful speech?” I said, “No. I fell asleep during that speech. I fell asleep.” I don’t get it. I don’t get it. He never got crowds like we get. That, I can tell you. So, we’ve got to be doing something right, but think of this. So, they weren’t paying their bills. So, we’re paying for close to 100% of NATO. So, here’s the story. They rip us off on trade. They have trade barriers that make it impossible for certain groups like farmers and others to go in. They rip us in trade, and then, we protect them, and they rip us on that, too, and they don’t pay their bills. Other than that, it’s a wonderful deal. So, we’re getting it straightened out, folks. We’re getting it straightened out. Somebody said, “President Obama is much more popular in Germany than Donald Trump.” Well, he should be. He should be because Germany is the biggest offender. They don’t pay. They’re paying one percent. We’re paying 4.3% of a much bigger GDP. Germany doesn’t want to pay. They’re supposed to pay two percent. They’re paying one percent, and I say, “You got to pay, Angela. You’ve got to pay, Angela. Please pay, Angela.”
And then, they say, “Who do you like better, Obama or President Trump?” Oh, I like President Obama. He was a [inaudible 00:56:40]. Look, if I start getting good poll numbers over there, I’m not doing my job, okay? That’s the way it is. That’s true. I’m not doing my job. But they still like me, and I have a good relationship and a great relationship with some, but somehow, even in this era of unprecedented prosperity and peace, the timeless traditions and values that make the American dream possible are under attack like no one has ever seen before. These people have lost all control, and even the Democrats, they’re left, but now, they’re getting dragged into a radical left position. I can’t imagine who’s doing that, but they’re being dragged radical left with these people that I believe, honestly, I believe they hate our country, okay? I believe they hate our country, and it’s true. When I watched this maniac Tlaib screaming and shouting, and this was before she was a Congress person. Can you believe it?
But screaming and shouting, out of control, and then, you see now they have another clip where she’s even worse. This is representing us? This is not what we want representing us, I don’t think. And I think it’s why we’re going to have a tremendous victory in 2020. These people are crazy.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA!
And when I have one of the others, I guess this is Cortez. I said, “I’m not going [inaudible 00:58:35].” Sir, her name is Alexandria, and the guy couldn’t figure out her second name. It was so funny. I’m being interviewed by one of you. Her, her name is Alexandria. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, sir. Okay. He never got it out. He never found his notes. I said, “That’s okay.” I told him, “Just call her Cortez because I don’t have time to call her by the whole name. It’s too long.” It’s true. You’re doing an interview, but she called our country and our people garbage.
She’s garbage.
She said garbage. That’s worst than deplorable. Remember deplorable? Oh, yes, you do. Remember Hilary, the deplorables. She actually said a word that was worse. She said deplorables, and what was the second word?
Irredeemables.
Irredeemables. That’s right. She said irredeemables.
Lock her up.
She said-
Lock her up.
She said deplorables and irredeemables, and when she said it, I said, “Boy, that irredeemables is really a bad … ” Well, that was not the one. You never know in politics, right? It’s a tough business. You say a word, and you’re gone. One wrong word, you can make 20 great speeches, brilliant. They say, “He’s great, the greatest orator, the greatest orator of our times. He’s the great.” One word, and you’re gone, except for Trump because we represent you, because we represent you.
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
Thank you. Thank you. No, but it’s true. It’s a tough business. One word, and you’re gone. It’s an incredible kind of a profession to have. That’s why they’re scared. They ago around. They’re petrified. They’re petrified that they’re going to insult 15 people and lose an election by calling out these four people, The Squad. By calling them out because we don’t like when they talk about evil Jews. We don’t like when they say horrible things about Israel. People are opposed to Israel, and they can express their opposition, but when they say it with venom, hatred, and language that nobody would use, nobody would use, it’s incredible, and then, you don’t have the Democrats fighting for Israel, and they end up passing things that have nothing to do with what the original problem was. You saw that. So, I don’t know what they’re going to do. I don’t know. They have a big problem because they others in these four. I could name another 20 right now without looking at a note. I could name another 20 that I think are, in many ways, worse. They’re worse. They’re not in this group, but they’re worse than this group, and they’re Democrats, and at some point, we will be naming them, if you don’t mind, because we want to get the word out. We have to get the word out.
As conservatives, we’re grateful for the great heritage that we have, the heritage of being an American. It’s so important to all of us. We know that America is the most just and virtuous republic ever conceived. I mean, we fight for other countries. I was with other countries two weeks ago, and we had the G20, and I’m talking to different people. Who do you fight for? Just our country. Who do you fight for? Just our country. Who do you fight for? And we fight for all these countries, and it costs us a fortune, and some of the countries are really wealthy. By the way, I’ve gone to all of them saying they have to now pay for their military. Okay. If you don’t mind that, okay. They haven’t done it. I mean, we’re fighting for countries that are so wealthy, some have nothing but cash. Nobody ever asks them, “Why aren’t you paying us for this? Why aren’t you reimbursing us for the cost?” But we now ask those questions. On the Straits, so, we get very little oil from the Straits anymore. In fact, yesterday, it was very interesting. They said, “It’s very interesting. There are no USA tankers here. They’re all from China, from Japan.”
China gets 65% of their oil from the Straits, right? Japan gets 25%. Other countries get a lot. And I said, “So, let me ask you just a really stupid question.” We hardly use it. We’re getting 10% only because we sort of feel an obligation to do it. We don’t need it. We’ve become an exporter. Can you believe it? We’re an exporter now. We don’t need it. And yet, we’re the ones that, for many, many decades, we’re the ones that policed it. We never got reimbursed. We police it for all these other countries, and I said a while ago, I said, “Why are we policing for China? Very rich. For Japan? Very rich. For all these other … ” And we’re policing also for countries, some of whom we’re very friendly with, like Saudi Arabia and others, UAE, others, too. But-
… Saudi Arabia, and others, UIE, others too. But why are we doing it without … Why do we have our ships there, and we’re putting our ships in the site. We did shoot down that drone the other day. It’s funny, for religious people, they lie a lot. They lie a lot. You can see it laying right down on the bottom of that beautiful bed of water. They say they never shot down a drone, then they say about, “We have captured 17 Americans,” I said, “No, no, that’s …” First thing I did, I call up the CIA, “Sir, totally false.” Okay. By the way, totally false, but they make up stories. I just say, for religious people, they lie a lot.
We know the story of America is the story of good defeating evil. We protect so many people, and in some cases we shouldn’t have been doing it. It’s right overcoming wrong, and it’s freedom smashing tyranny. Americans are the patriots who threw off an empire, won an independence, settled the wild west, ended slavery, secured civil rights, pushed the boundaries of science, vanquished the Nazis, brought Communism to its knees, and put a man on the moon many, many years ago.
We will become the first nation to land astronauts on Mars where they will proudly plant a very beautiful American flag. Yet, despite all that we have achieved, despite the glory and grandeur of our nation, the radical left has nothing but contempt for American heritage. I’m talking about the radical left among us, I’m not talking about the radical left that are looking over failed countries like Venezuela and others, I’m talking about the radical left among us. They see our history as a source of shame, our traditions and our victories as relics to be replaced, our values as obstacles to be removed, our citizens as subjects to be controlled, and America as a menace to be constrained. That’s what they say, that’s what they say.
The agenda of the radical left is one of division, discord, and demolition. When I see her running, and ranting, and screaming like a total lunatic, this is what we’re dealing with. You can never have a country with values like that, just look at it. There’s no reasoning. The language she uses. I mean, she was throwing a certain F bomb, right? Do we know the F? She was throwing that out about the presidency, and about the president, and such a sad thing to see how low have we gone. The far left has one fundamental objective, and that’s the objective of power. The power to control you, the power to control your family, and the power to destroy the foundations of our great republic. But we will not let them. It will never happen. It will never happen.
It will never happen. They’re, right now, destroying themselves, and they’re going after everything, they’re doing things that nobody can believe. The people that I’m looking, they said, “Who’s your toughest opponent?” I said, “So far, I dream about these people that I’m looking at.” There is no Winston Churchill in the midst, there is nobody that we look at. But you have to be very careful. Socialism is not as easy to beat as you think. When you’re wealthy, and you’re doing record stock, so you have 401ks, and you have all of the things that you have, and everybody’s doing well. Somebody comes along, says, “We’re going to give you free everything, everything’s going to be free. By the way, we’re going to raise your taxes to 75%.” But they don’t mean that, because they can’t nearly pay, 90%, and that won’t pay for it either. Won’t even come close.
“We’re going to do the Green New Deal,” which is the craziest thing I’ve ever heard. It’s crazy. But don’t kid yourself, not as easy when I’m up there on the debate all alone with some maniac that they chose. That maniac is saying. “We’re going to do this for you, we’re going to do that for you, we’re going to give you everything. We’re going to give you … Everybody gets a free Rolls-Royce. Every family. We’re going to take better care of illegal immigrants than we take care of our citizens,” they tell you. When they’re saying all of this stuff, and then those illegals get out and vote, because they vote anyway. Don’t kid yourself, those numbers that California and numerous other states, they’re rigged. You got people voting that shouldn’t be voting.
They vote many times, not just twice, not just three times. It’s like a circle. They come back, they put a new hat on. They come back, they put a new shirt on. In many cases, they don’t even do that. You know what’s going on. It’s a rigged deal. For example, the radical left is waging an unprecedented assault on the rule of law in America. They are. They want to eliminate our borders and totally abolish ICE, and now they want to abolish a thing called Homeland Security.
That means going on airplanes without any security, that means doing all of the things that you do, and you appreciate it, but you don’t even see what’s going on. But they now want to abolish Homeland … They started off with ICE. Let me tell you, these ICE people are great patriots. That’s a tough job. They go into these MS-13 gangs, and even your local law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. These gangs are mean, they’re tough. They deal in a medieval style. They cut people up medieval style, because it’s more painful. These are sick people. We don’t want them. We’re taking them out by the thousands out of our country, by the thousands.
With raging anger, ignorance, and malice, the far left has slandered, libeled, and speared our law enforcement heroes. They just go after our law enforcement, it’s so sad to see. They’re so respected, and yet they don’t know it because all they do is they see the negativity put on by the media. The American people forcefully reject these hate filled attacks, and that’s what they do, the hate filled, and they are indeed attacks, on our very brave public servants. Americans will always stand with courageous men and women of ICE, and border patrol, and law enforcement, always.
The hard left is also waging war against freedom of speech. The greatest threat to this radical left agenda is the truth. The problem is, we’re not getting the truth from the media, for the most part. Some, yes. But for the most part, we don’t get the truth. I can tell you stories where I’ll do something, and let’s say it’s good, they’ll make it look bad. Let’s say it’s great, things that you can’t look bad, you can’t … They’ll make it look okay.
Liars.
And if it’s bad … That is correct. That is correct. What they’re doing is unthinkable, and they’ve hurt themselves so badly. They’ll say, “Seven sources have said that this took place in the White House,” or something. There are no seven sources, they make them up. They make them up. There are no … They have gone … They used to call up and say, “We’d like to just verify this statement, or verify a quote.” They don’t even call up anymore. We don’t hear from The New York Times, which is totally crooked. We don’t hear from The New York Times, The Washington Post, which is the Amazon, I always say it’s the Amazon lobbyists. We don’t hear from these people. They don’t call up and say, “We’d like to check a quote.”
I don’t see anymore where they say, “Jim Smith of the White House made the following statement.” It’s always, “A source, who decided to remain anonymous from the White House.” Sometimes they’ll say, “Seven people from the White …” they don’t exist. It’s a lie. They don’t check, they don’t do anything. They’re really, really dishonest people. I’ll tell you, when I say the enemy of the people, when I say the fake news, when I say these things, I’m not kidding. It’s really dishonest. They have become, they like the word “unhinged,” they have become, the media has become totally unhinged. They used to call. When I was a … I used to get the greatest publicity. When I was doing buildings, I was happy, no problems. I was doing buildings, I didn’t have to worry about North Korea, Iran. I didn’t have to worry about China and trade. You think it’s easy beating China on trade, guess what, we’re beating them on trade. We’re beating them on a lot. We’re beating everybody. But it’s not easy.
I used to get the best publicity. Now I haven’t had a good story in two and a half years. I’m dying for my first good story, they’re going to give me one someday. I think when I get one, it will be time. I’ll say, “I’ve just achieved something.” I’ll say, “First Lady, they love our First Lady. It’s the First Lady.” They love our First Lady. I’ll say, “First Lady, I just got a good story. It’s time to hang it up. It’s time.” Some day we’re going to get them. We’re going to get them, because nobody’s done what we’ve done in two and a half years. Nobody even close. We’ve done in the first two and a half years more than any president in the history of our country.
Anyone who speaks the truth is shouted down, censored, de platformed, fired, expelled, harassed, intimidated, abused, and even, in many cases, assaulted. The don’t go after certain of our people. Bikers for Trump, you ever seen these guys? The bikers. They leave them alone, our construction workers, they leave them alone. Our law enforcement, they leave them alone. Anybody that looks real tough and real nasty, they leave them alone. They only go after somebody that stands there and is not a fighter, nothing wrong with that, and they beat the hell out of them, and they pummel him like what happened two weeks ago. They pummel him. That’s the only one they go after. They’ll go after that. They say, “Is he a fighter?” “No, let’s hit him over the head with sticks and bats,” what they do.
It’s a horrible thing. But they don’t do it to many of our people, but they look for the people that aren’t the fighters. These dangerous behaviors are the hallmarks of socialism, but socialism cannot survive when people are free to think for themselves. That’s why America will never be a socialist country, it’s never going to happen.
Thank you. Because as patriots we cherish our first amendment, we believe that every American has the God given right to speak his or her mind, and no one can ever take away that right. For centuries, Americans freely exchanged their ideas in the public square. Now the public square exists online, and massive, multi-national tech companies have gained enormous power to sensor opinions, shape public perception, and really to decide what information citizens are going to be given. I see it all the time, I see it on social media for me. I have people coming up all the time, “We want to follow you sir, they make it so hard to follow you.” I have millions and millions of people, but it should be much more. I know exactly what’s happening. I know when it started. But the only thing I do say is this, it’s happened from the beginning. Facebook, Twitter, Google, all of them. They come to me when they want help.
They want help because the Democrats want to shut them down, can you believe it? How stupid is that for them? But maybe they don’t have the power that we think, because they were totally against me in the election, and I’m standing now before you as the President of the United States, so maybe they don’t have the power.
Maybe they don’t. I don’t know. Everyone tells me when you read, they talk about this tremendous power, and I’m saying, “That’s right, they’re making it impossible.” Then somebody will look at me, “But sir, you won.” But they’re gaining more, and more, and more, and we’re looking at a lot of things, because they have not treated us as Republicans and conservatives. Even when you get into religion, they have not treated us fairly. They haven’t treated us fairly. A free society cannot allow social media giants to silence the voices of the people. That is why I’ve asked my administration to explore every possible regulatory and legislative solution, because you have to have free speech. You have to have free speech. I’ve also instructed federal agencies to hold our public colleges and universities accountable when they do numbers. You go up to speak, and what they do to our people is just … By the way, I’m President, of all the people, everybody. Everybody. I love everybody. I have people maybe I shouldn’t love. I love this nation. This nation is made up not only of us, it’s made up of everybody.
But what they do is so unfair. Any college that refuses now to respect your first amendment rights will be asking for billions and billions of dollars, and they won’t be getting it. They won’t be getting it. Signed.
All signed up, anyone can become a target of the left’s brutal campaign to punish to [inaudible 01:19:25]. Hey, I’m the number one target in the world, and here we are. But I’m the number one target. Who’s more of a target than me? No matter what you do, I’m the great target for these people, these people are crazy. Earlier this year, in Park City, Utah, a leftist released pepper spray into a high school auditorium to shut down a Turning Point USA meeting. 20 students and teachers had to immediately seek major medical attention. Think of that. One of the students from that school joins us today, Ryan Zinc. Where are you Ryan? Get over here, Ryan, come on up, come up. Come up here.
Come up here, Ryan.
Say a few words.
Hi, everybody.
Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan, Ryan.
I do believe the free speech in our schools is currently at stake. As conservative students, there are many cases, myself, some other people that I’ve met here, and across the country are being silenced, are being shut down by whether it be their schools, teachers, friends. We’re not being listened to properly, and our voices need to be proudly expressed, and we cannot be silenced.
Great job.
Thank you. Thank you.
You know, he had no idea that was going to happen, but he started to like it. I said, “You know, this could be a long time.” He’ll be in office someday, or doing something fantastic. Thank you, Ryan, great job.
In May, faculty at West Haven High School in Connecticut tried to ban the local chapter of Turning Point USA because students hung up a sign that read, “America is the best country in the world.” Can you believe that?
It is the best country in the world. One board of education member viciously smeared the students as racists, sexists, bullies who are brainwashed by their Republican parents. But the attacks have only strengthened the group’s resolve, and membership has skyrocketed since then. We are winning, we are winning.
With us today is that Turning Point USA chapter president, Dan Gallipoli. Dan, I want to just thank you for that fight. Where’s Dan? Dan, do you want to come up, Dan? Come on up, Dan. He wants to come up. Come up. Come on up. Come on up here, Dan.
[inaudible 01:23:04].
Yes.
Come on up.
Thank you. Hi everyone, it’s great … It’s so great to be here, it’s such an honor. Thank you all so much, thank you Turning Point USA for all of your support and for helping us with the fight for free speech on campus no matter what, no matter what they say. No matter the teacher, no matter the student, no matter the faculty, we will stand up for what we believe in.
Great job. [inaudible 01:23:50].
Whoa. That’s fantastic, Dan. Now I see why he’s president of his chapter. Who wants to fight him? Thank you, Dan, great job. Last year Hunter Richer, where’s Hunter? Hunter, do you want to come up, Hunter? Come on up, Hunter.
Hunter’s a high school sophomore in San Antonio, Texas. Great place. He just wanted to get hamburger with a couple of his friends, and Hunter happened to be wearing a beautiful red cap, that said Make America Great Again. A 30-year-old man flew into a rage, stole Hunter’s hat. Oh, I knew that, that was a pretty famous deal, that was all over the place, right? Threw a drink at him, and called him a racial slur. Thankfully it was all captured on video, and the assailant was arrested and [inaudible 01:25:10].
We all watched that event many times, that scene many times. Hunter, thank you for your courage. That was fantastic the way you handled it, thank you.
Every day I go to school, I always wear a red MAGA hoodie, if you follow my Instagram, you’ll definitely see it all the time. I proudly wear my Make America Great Again hat every time I go out of my house, although I will say this, Mr. President, I do have one problem with you, and that’s that I only get to have you as my president for six more years.
[inaudible 01:25:46].
Thank you.
Wow. Thank you. Great future. Thank you. Boy, I’ll tell you.
[crosstalk 01:26:05] for life.
Thank you very much, that’s what they’re afraid of. Did you see the other side? Did you see they have some comedian? Third rate comedian. He’s going, and he really means it. “You know he’s going to win, don’t you?” They go, “Well, maybe.” “You know he’s going to win. You know that in six years, you know it’s going to happen. He’s not leaving, you know that. He’s never going to leave, you know it. He’s not leaving.” These people are insane. He believes it. Thank you, Hunter, that was great. Great job.
You know that our movement stands for patriotism, confidence, excellence, liberty, justice, support for our military. Love for America, and loyalty to our nation and all of its people. We’re together. We all stand together for American greatness. Even at such a young age, the members of your generation are proving that our hearts and souls are all wound together, we are unbridled in our love for our country, we are truly American patriots. Remember that. Keep America great.
Right.
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
The forces of political correctness want to silence conservative students to make you feel alone, marginalized, and isolated, and you are not. Just look around you at this incredible record setting crowd. Many, many people outside, too. I hate to tell you, I hate to tell them. They didn’t do as well, but they have a screen. It’s not as good, not quite the same, but we do the best we can. You’re not alone. The silent majority is silent no more. Your moment in the sun is just beginning. The story of America has always been written by everyday citizens who love their country so much, they could not help but speak out. That’s what happens, that’s why these three young, incredible people came up here. “Would you like to speak, Hunter?” “Yes, sir.” Most people go, “Oh, I don’t know sir. Oh maybe not.” These people, it’s like all three of them. “Ryan, you want to speak again, Ryan?” “Yes, sir, I do.”
These are great people, these are people with courage. Many of them were young, barely older than all of you. George Washington was just 21 years old when he received his first military command. Decades later, he chose a 20- year-old Alexander Hamilton to be his top aid. Betsy Ross was 24 when she began sewing the first American flag. You think about it, she’s probably more important now than she was two or three weeks ago when this stupid thing by Nike was done. They’re a tenant of mine, they pay me a lot of rent, I probably won’t see those checks anymore, but I don’t care, because I’m president. I don’t care about that.
Amelia Earhart was only 23 when she took her first flying lesson, on her way to becoming an aviation pioneer. Martin Luther King was 26 when he marched for justice through the streets of Montgomery, Alabama. General Dwight Eisenhower and General Douglas MacArthur were both in their early 20s when they graduated from West Point, never imagining they would some day save the world from tyranny. From the very beginning, America has been lifted even higher by the daring dreams of young Americans like each and every one of you.
Now it’s your turn to inspire our country, your chance to choose greatness for America, because your time has come. Your time is now. The choices you make over the next few years will shape much more than your own future. They will forever shape America’s destiny. Your choices, your leaders, your great leaders, you will be, some of you in this room will be the great leaders of our country. A couple of you may be standing essentially here someday, in a position where you can do so much. In mere months, some of you may take your first steps down a path that someday lead to discovering new breakthroughs in science, saving lives in medicine, leading a revolution in technology, upholding our values in public service, protecting our communities in law enforcement, defending our freedom in the military, or leading humanity into the stars.
As long as you are confident in your values, as long as you are loyal to our citizens, as long as you keep faith in God above, there is no limit to what you will achieve.
[inaudible 01:32:18].
You are the ones who are lifting our nation in the very near future. I have no doubt you will do it to soaring new heights. I have no doubt. I see the people in this room. There’s greatness in this room, there’s greatness in this room. Remember I said it. Someday you’re going to think back to this day, and you’re going to say, “You know, I remember President Trump saying there’s greatness in this room.” You’re going to be not only speaking about yourself, you’re going to be speaking about others in the room who you know are going to rise to great heights with you. You are the ones who are bringing about the incredible rebirth of the American spirit. You are the ones who will make this moment a turning point, a true historical moment. This generation, your generation, will make the light and the glory of America shine brighter, and longer, and prouder than ever before.
I want to congratulate you, you’ve had a long journey, but your journey has just begun. I want to thank you for being here. May God bless you, and may God bless America. Thank you, thank you.
It’s essential that Congress fund another 10,000 ICE officers, and we’re asking for that, so that we can eliminate MS-13 and root out the criminal cartels from our country. Now, we’re getting them out anyway, but we’d like to get them out a lot faster. And when you see these towns, and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon, you just see them thrown in rough. I said, “Please don’t be too nice.” Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, you know, the way you put the hand over, like don’t hit their head. And they’ve just killed somebody. Don’t hit their head. I said, “You can take the hand away, okay?”
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. What a crowd. Wow. Look at that, boy. What a crowd. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. We just set a record in this building, folks, so that’s good news. That’s fantastic. Thank you. I love Michigan. And I was telling you come November, to be specific, November 8th, with your help we are going to win and we are going to win big. And we are going to the White House, and we are going to bring jobs back to our country, and we are going to bring jobs back to Michigan. It’s going to be a victory for the people, a victory for the wage earner, the factory work. Remember this, a big, big victory for the factory worker. They haven’t had those victories for a long time, a victory for every citizen and for all of the people whose voices have not been heard for many, many years. They’re going to be heard again.
It’ll be a win for the voters. Not for the, pundits, not for the journalists, not for the lobbyists, not for the global special interests funding my opponent’s campaign. It’s going to be your victory. These are hard times for many in this country. I just got back from a tour of the suffering and devastation in Louisiana. Perhaps you can tell by the way I’m dressed, just got off the plane. It was actually incredible, the spirit of the people is incredible. The devastation, likewise, they’ve never seen anything like it, but the spirit of the people is incredible. And honestly, Obama ought to get off the golf course and get down there.
We mourn for the lives lost, and we pledge our help, comfort, and support to every last person in need. To the people of Louisiana, we are with you, and we will always be with you. In my visit, I saw not only the suffering of our people, but also their strength, courage, and really unbeatable spirit. Their spirit will overcome. We have a lot to overcome in our country, especially the fact that our jobs are being taken away from us and going to other lands. And we’re not going to allow it to happen. And especially it’s happening right here in Michigan. It’s an amazing spirit that we will need to rebuild our country. It’s that strength that we’re going to need to create the new American future our children so much deserve.
In this new… Thank you. Thank you very much. In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the workforce. And if I’m not elected President, that will never happen. Believe me, they’re talking to you, they’re playing you, but believe me, you know the answer. And I have to say that I’ve been talking about Michigan and the car industry and how your businesses and plants have been ripped out of your land. And I’ve been doing it for four years to the people of Michigan. Other people started talking about it last week. They’re not going to do anything about it. Crumbling roads, bridges and airports will be replaced with the infrastructure our country needs and deserves.
Families trapped in welfare will be provided with jobs and opportunity. Children stuck in failing government schools will be able to attend the school of their choice. Government will become lean, effective, responsible, and honest. Our border will be protected, and our children will be safe, very, very safe.
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
And we will build the wall. Don’t worry about it, we will build the wall.
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
Law and order will be restored. And the poorest places in our country will know safety and peace again. American values and cultures will be cherished, and I mean cherished, and celebrated once again. But to achieve this new American future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies over and over and over again. No group in America has been more harmed by Hillary Clinton’s policies than African Americans. No group, no group. If Hillary Clinton’s goal was to inflict pain on the African American community, she could not have done a better job. It’s a disgrace. Tonight, I’m asking for the vote of every single African American citizen in this country who wants to see a better future. The inner cities of our country have been run by the democratic party for more than 50 years, their policies have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, and broken homes. It’s time to hold democratic politicians accountable for what they have done to these communities. At what point do we say, “Enough”? At what point do we say, “Enough”? It’s time to hold failed leaders accountable for their results, not just their empty words over and over again. Look at what the democratic party has done to the city as an example, and there are many others, of Detroit, 40% of Detroit’s residents, 40% live in poverty. Half of all Detroit residents do not work and cannot work and can’t get a job. Detroit tops the list of most dangerous cities in terms of violent crime. Number one. This is the legacy of the democratic politicians who have run this city. This is the result of the policy agenda embraced by crooked Hillary Clinton.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
33,000 emails gone. The only way to change results is to change leadership. We can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created our problems in the first place. A new future requires brand new leadership. Look how much African American communities have suffered under democratic control, To those, I say the following.
To those I say the following, “What do you have to lose by trying something new like Trump?” What do you have to lose?
Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump.
I say it again, “What do you have to lose?” Look, what do you have to lose? You’re living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58% of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose? And at the end of four years, I guarantee you that I will get over 95% of the African American vote, I promise you. Because I will produce, I will produce for the inner cities and I will produce for the African Americans. And the Democrats, the Democrats will not produce and all they’ve done is taking advantage of your vote, that’s all they’ve done. And once the election’s over they go back to their palaces in Washington and you know what? They do nothing for you, just remember it.
So you have nothing to lose. One thing we know for sure is that if you keep voting for the same people you will keep getting the same, exactly the same result. My administration will go to work for you as no one has ever done before. We will work, we will bring back jobs, we will work. By contrast, the one thing every item in Hillary Clinton’s agenda has in common is that it takes jobs and opportunities away from African American workers. It takes jobs away from all workers because your companies are leaving Michigan, your companies are leaving every single state in our union. They’re going to Mexico, they’re going everywhere but here.
Hillary Clinton supports open borders which means many thing, but it means people pour in and they take your jobs. Whether you like it or don’t like it they take your jobs. Her fierce opposition to school choice, you need choice, you have to get your children into good schools. You do that through competition, you need choice. Her plan to massively raise taxes on small business and everyone one, $1.3 trillion tax increase, whereas I’m cutting taxes very substantially for business and for the middle class. Her tremendous opposition to American energy, the opposition is fierce. And her record of giving our jobs away to many, many other countries. America must reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton who sees communities of color only as votes not as human beings worthy of a better future.
Hillary Clinton would rather provide a job to a refugee from overseas than to give that job to unemployed African American youth in cities like Detroit, who have become refugees in their own country. It’s time to get our country back to work and that includes an all out effort to help young African Americans get the good paying jobs that they deserve. Hillary Clinton’s plan would bring in an estimated 620,000 refugees in her first term at a lifetime benefit cost of some $400 billion to our country according to the Senate Immigration Subcommittee. Hillary Clinton wants to be America’s Angela Merkel.
By the way, for the price of supporting one refugee in the United States, we could support 12 in a safe zone in the Middle East or let’s say, Syria. The improved refugee screening standards I have proposed will save countless billions of dollars. It’s called extreme vetting, extreme vetting. We will invest a portion of the money saved in a jobs program for inner city youth. The African American community has given so much to this country. They fought and died in every war since the revolution, they’ve lifted up the conscience of our nation in the long march towards civil rights. They’ve sacrificed so much for the national good, yet nearly four in 10 African American children still live in poverty and 58%, as I said, of young African Americans are not working, they cannot find a job.
We must do better as a country. I refuse to believe that the future must be like the past, it won’t be. Our future is going to be a great future for everyone, for everyone. In a Trump administration all workers of all colors will get priority for jobs in their own country, which is about time. I want higher wages for African Americans, for Hispanic Americans and for all Americans, we want higher wages. Many, many workers in our country are making substantially less money today in real wages than they made 18 years ago. They’re working two jobs instead of one, they’re working much harder as they get older and it’s supposed to be the opposite. We’re going to stop it. We’re going to create great jobs and we’re going to get the wages up.
Hillary Clinton is a throwback to an ugly past where politicians preyed on our poorest citizens while selling them out for personal gain. Promises, promises, all talk no action. All talk no action politicians. They talk, talk, talk, you vote them in with great fanfare and then they do nothing. With Trump that’s not going to happen, believe me. We must turn the page on yesterday. Only a change in leadership will produce a change in outcomes and we can’t take as a country four more years of Obama, and that’s what you get with Hillary Clinton but probably worse.
In this new American future, American workers will always come first. America first, always come first. This will include a complete revitalization of the Michigan manufacturing section. Now, you have to understand, the Michigan manufacturing sector is a disaster, is a disaster. Look at your notes, look at your stats, look at what’s happening to your State. You’re losing your businesses, it’s like taking candy away from a baby. And many people in this audience right now that think you have jobs you’re going to find out very soon that your company is leaving for Mexico or some other place and you’re not going to have your job very long. And if Trump gets in those days are over folks, those days are over.
We will be bringing back our jobs to Michigan. There will be a very big price to pay for those companies that want to leave our land, go someplace else, manufacture their goods and sell them back with no retribution, it won’t happen, there will be consequence. It won’t happen, it will not happen. Michigan lost more than one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. As you know, NAFTA, one of the worst trade bills in history, maybe, maybe, the worst trade bill ever signed in the history of the world not only in our country. It’s emptied out Michigan, it’s emptied out New England, it’s emptied out in New York State, it’s emptied out so many of our great companies. They leave and they fire. We end up with devastation, we end up with unemployment, we end up with nothing. The bill was signed by Bill Clinton, it was supported by Hillary Clinton.
… supported by Hillary Clinton. Right here in this community, you’ve lost one in seven manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton put China into the World Trade Organization, another Hillary Clinton backed deal, she backs all the deals. And by the way, she will be back in Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP, if she is elected, just mark your words. Just remember, you know it’s going to happen. She considered it the gold standard. All of a sudden, when she heard me talking about it, she said, I can’t win this one, so she went against it. She’ll go back immediately. And you saw that when the governor of Virginia who’s her friend said that was going to happen.
Detroit lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs following the NAFTA and WTO agreements that were supported very strongly by my opponent. No industry has been hurt more by Hillary Clinton’s policies than the automobile industry, or as we call it, the car industry. It has been a total disaster. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, before NAFTA went into effect, there were 285,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is down to only 160,000, and it’s going to be a lot lower because if you look at the massive plants being built right now in Mexico, car plants, folks, you can kiss a lot of these jobs goodbye. But not with me, not with me, won’t happen.
In 2014, General Motors announced plans to double its investments in Mexico by 2018. Not good. In April, 2016, Ford Motor Company announced plans to invest another 1.6 billion constructing an auto plant in Mexico. Mexico will become the car capital of the world very, very quickly, and Michigan is going to end up with lots of empty buildings all over the place unless you elect Donald Trump president, in which case is not going to happen. The same month, Fiat Chrysler announced 1,300 layoffs. The list goes on and on.
We will turn it around, we will turn it around fast. We will meet with these companies and we will say, it will not be easy for you to move your plant to Mexico, for you to sell your cars through what will be a very strong border, and for you not to pay tax on those cars coming in. And when we tell them that there will be a substantial tax on the cars that they make in Mexico and other places, number one, they’re not going to move in the first place, and number two, if they do, our country’s going to make one heck of a lot of money.
But to save your jobs and to do all of the things that I’m talking about, we have to win on November 8th. The destruction that NAFTA started will be finished off if the Trans-Pacific partnership is approved. It will be almost, nothing’s as bad as NAFTA, but it will be almost as bad as NAFTA. We know from Hillary’s closest friend that she’s planning to ram through TPP if she’s elected. She even called it, as I said, the gold standard. It’s passage would be a disaster for Michigan in particular, for the car industry in particular, for the people of Michigan. I won’t let it happen. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the United States trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost over one million manufacturing jobs in our country in 2015. By far the biggest losses occurred in motor vehicles and parts, which lost nearly 740, 000, think of that, 740,000 manufacturing jobs. Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of state workforce due to trade deficit with TPP members. Just imagine how many more automobile jobs will be lost if Hillary gets her wish and approves TPP. It will not be pretty. That’s why I have announced that we will withdraw from the deal before that deal can ever, ever, ever happen.
I had previously laid out a detailed seven point plan for trade reform available on my website. It includes strong protections against currency manipulation from countries like China and tariffs against any nation that cheats by unfairly subsidizing their goods, of which many of them do. My plan also includes a total renegotiation of NAFTA so our jobs can come back. And if we can’t make a much, much better deal than we have right now, we will walk.
I’m not in any way, shape or form an isolationist, I don’t believe in it, but we have to make great deals for our country. We’re losing in our whole trade negotiation with the oil countries over $800 billion a year, that’s a trade deficit. Who negotiates these deals? We want great trade deals and we will have them. But we want trade deals that work for America that create jobs and wealth for our country, that work for the American worker. We want to shrink our almost $800 billion trade deficit. We don’t want to expand it, and it’s has been expanding for years. For years and years, you look at the charts, up, up, up, up, up.
And I say to myself so often, why don’t they do something about it? And the reason is, we have political hacks as our negotiators. We have politicians as our negotiators. We have politicians that are controlled, like Hillary Clinton, by her donors, her special interests and her lobbyists. And they won’t let her do what’s right for our workers and for our country. We want to be leading the world in production, exports, and manufacturing. We want jobs to leave from other countries and come into our country for a change. Another major issue in this race is foreign policy. Hillary Clinton has made one bad foreign policy decision after another, beginning with the support for going to war in Iraq. And I opposed it so strongly, nobody cared. I was a civilian, but I opposed it. I said, you will have a total destabilization of the middle East. It was such common sense. And look what happened. Her tenure as Secretary of State may be regarded as the most disastrous in United States history, but she’s totally without remorse. Her failed decisions as Secretary of State unleashed ISIS onto the world. But has she ever apologized for the death and destruction she has caused? No. Look at the world before and after she became Secretary of State.
Pre-Hillary, in the early 2009s, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Libya was somewhat stable. Syria was under control. The group we now know today ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Now, take a look at what we have. Fast forward to the present time. After Hillary, here’s what it looks like. Iraq is in total chaos. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war and a refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States, where we’re taking in thousands and thousands and thousands of people. ISIS has been unleashed onto the entire world. Iran, the world’s top state sponsor of terrorism has been put on the path to nuclear weapons, was given $400 million in ransom payment cash, where they just yesterday caught Obama in yet another lie.
And yet another lie, very much like, “You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan Obamacare.” A total disaster. It will be repealed. It will be replaced.
Hillary Clinton is a legacy of death, destruction and terrorism. America deserves a better legacy. All of you deserve a much, much better future. I am the change agent. I am the change agent. I am your messenger. And I’ve said it many times. I am nothing more than your messenger. It’s a message of strong defense, common sense. Take care of our vets. Great education, get rid of common core. Great healthcare, get rid of Obamacare. Save our Second Amendment, which is under tremendous siege right now.
Hillary Clinton is the defender of the status quo, or what we have. While our country lost badly under Hillary Clinton, she cashed in big time. Our country was losing. Our people were losing, but she is cashing in. Bill Clinton’s speaking fees surged while Hillary was Secretary of State. Bill was paid almost $50 million for speeches during her tenure, an increase in 44% over the previous four years. And by the way, things came out today that blow everything away. Then there was all the money funneled into the Clinton Foundation from foreign governments and corporations. It was pay for play.
Boo.
Yet Hillary Clinton, who is indifferent to the suffering she has caused, has no remorse at all. She offers no apologies for selling government favors, no apologies for unleashing ISIS, no apologies for her open borders, no apologies for lying about her emails or about Benghazi. The only way to learn the full depth of her public corruption is to read the 33,000 emails that she deleted. And the only way to get justice in this rigged system is to show up and vote on November 8th, and vote big, big, big.
I will bring your jobs back. So are you ready to vote?
Yeah.
And what about your future? Is it going to be great, good or terrible?
Great.
Great. If you’re ready to vote for honest government and the honest government that you deserve, a Trump administration will end the corruption and restore integrity to government service. Remember, I’m funding my campaign. I’m spending tremendous amounts of money on running for office. I’m raising money for the Republican Party and the Republican National Committee, which I think is doing a very good job, but I’ll tell you more about that on November 8th. I’ll let you know if they do a good job or if they do not such a good job, but I think they’re going to do a great job.
No one will be above the law. In a Trump administration, the State Department will work for the country, not for Hillary Clinton’s donors. And I will work for you, and I will work for no one else. I will work for you. I will never lie to you. I will never put any other interests before you, and I will never, ever stop fighting for you. Never.
The government will work for the people again. That means we are only going to admit individuals into our country who support our values, and we’re not going to issue visas where adequate screening controls take place. We are going to make sure that we have total screening. And without it, we cannot continue to have our government run like this. We will also seek to join in partnership with any nation that wishes to join us in defeating and destroying ISIS.
At home, taxes will go down, especially for … Look, I mean, it’s going to go down for a lot of people. For business, they’re going down. Businesses are going to flourish. They’re going to come pouring back. But taxes will go down, especially for middle income Americans. Small business rates will be lowered to 15% so we can put millions of new jobs into our poorest neighborhoods. As I said, Obamacare will be repealed and replaced. Voters, not special interests, will be in charge, finally. We are going to bring our country together again. We have a divided country. It’s totally divided. The era of division will be replaced with a future of unity, total unity. We will love each other. We will have one country. Everybody will work together.
We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. It’s time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last child in this country to have the better future they deserve. In my administration, every American will be treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
This is the change I am promising to all of you: an honest government with low taxes, a thriving economy, and a just society for each and every American. It’s time to vote for a new American future. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America united again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Michigan. Thank you. (singing)